a new method for fast multi-slice T1 mapping
abstract: a sequence for T1 relaxation time mapping which enables high resolution multislice imaging in short acquisition times is presented.
the sequence is based on the look-locker method, and employs a magnetization preparation module prior to data acquisition with a banded 
k-space data collection scheme. the accuracy of t1 maps validated by phantom is <3% for slow relaxing compartments and <1% for fast relaxing
compartments (T1<=1200ms). an acquisition time of approximately 8min was achieved for a T1 map, which in principle can provide whole brain
coverage, with 25 slices, 256x256 matrix size, and 12 time points. the speed of the sequence is derived through optimized interleaving of 
slices and time points, together with the acquisition of multiple echoes, which are used to fill a 3-segment k-space. 

introduction: the measurement of the spin-lattice relaxation time T1 using MRI is becoming increasingly popular in applications such as
quantitative tracer kinetics, radiation dosimetry, and the response of tumors to therapy. previous techniques which were either too 
technically demanding or required long acquisition times are now feasible. 
the advantage offered by the acquisition speed of multislice, inversion recovery EPI method (ER-EPI) was originally lost due to the fact 
that EPI was not a widely available method. snapshot FLASH and EPI based methods are based on the spectroscopic look-locker method, and employ
multiple radiofrequency pulses during magnetization recovery to sample several time points and therefore track the recovery of the 
magnetization. a relaxation time mapping scheme is thus acquired which is faster, less prone to movement artifacts, and more time efficient
than the simple IR spin echo techniques. additionally, multiple point acquisition facilitates the mapping of bi or multi-exponential decay
curves, which require more than two points. though signals which show a mono-exponential decay curve can be quantified with two points 
(M0, and one point on the recovery curve, for example), the relaxation time mapping of such signals in the presence of noise is more accurate
if multiple time points are sampled. the original snapshot FLASH approach is essentially a single, slice by slice method with low temporal
resolution. 
in this work, a new method for quantitative T1 mapping, based on the look-locker approach, is presented. the method uses a magnetization 
preparation scheme and utilizes readout gradient reversals to acquire multiple lines of k-space following a single excitation pulse. this 
new method allows multislice, multi-time point data acquisition through the re-ordering of acquired k-space data prior to reconstruction. 
the principle of interleaving slices and time points allows for extremely efficient data acquisition and allows the recovery curve to be
sampled with much higher temporal resolution than IR-EPI, snapshot FLASH, or segmented snapshot FLASH. the sequence employs a banded k-space
approach with magnetization prepration and has been termed TAPIR (t1 mapping with partial inversion recovery). 

concepts: in a look-locker style T1-measurement, multiple low flip angle pulses are employed to sample several time points of a T1 recovery.
the influence of these low flip angle pulses during the recovery period affects the magnetization recovery, and the apparent T1 values differ
from the true T1 values. to understand this, the small fraction of the total longitudinal magnetization that is excited by each small flip 
angle pulse must be considered. following inversion, each excitation pulse reduces the available longitudinal magnetization, and therefore 
thus recovery following a given alpha pulse begins with a smaller magnetization value than that which would exist in absence of the 
excitation pulse. this leads to an effective longitudinal magnetization time which is smaller than the true T1 value. 
it has been shown that the measured T1* is smaller than the actual T1, and depends critically on the flip angle alpha and repetition time 
TR between successive RF pulses. the effective relaxation time constant T1 is then given by: 
1/T1* = 1/T1 - (1/(nslices*TR))*ln(cos(alpha))
under most circumstances, a precise knowledge of alpha at all points in the sample is an intractable demand, however if multiple measurements
have been made, T1 may be obtained from a 3-parameter fit as described below: following the application of a large number of excitation 
pulses, the longitudinal magnetization mz(t) as a function of time can be expressed as follows: mz(t) = m*0-(m0+m*0)*e^(-t/T1*), where
m0 is the equilibrium magnetizations. since TR << T1*, apparent equilibrium magnetization may be written as m*0 = m0*(T1*/T1). therefore,
a three parameter fit of the measured time points circumvents the need to know the flip angle, and mz(t) = A - B*(e^-(t/T1*)). these 
derivations also hold for the magnetization preparation scheme used here, which has also been termed saturation recovery. the true 
longitudinal magnetization constant can be calculated by solving the following equation: T1*[1-exp(-tau/T1)] = T1'*[B/A-1]
in general, the choice of the optimal flip angle for the maximum steady state signal is based on the ernst formula however for the look locker
method the flip angle alpha should be as small as possible to ensure least perturbation of the magnetization as it recovers. 
in other words, modulation of the T1 relaxation by the sampling process should be held to a minimum to avoid inaccuracies in the measured
T1 values. the low flip angle approach is SNR limited, but the arbitrary use of large flip angles is also undesireable as it would unduly 
modulate the T1 relaxation. 
phantom measurements were performed to optimize the flip angle and the interpulse delay tau, for the expected in-vivo T1 values for gray/white
matter compartments respectively (T1 = 900ms, and T1=600ms respectively). 

methods: 
the effective window with which the inversion recovery curve is sampled is given by Ts = n*TR, where n is the number of slices and TR is the
repeat time of the alpha module.
the multi-slice, multi-echo TAPIR sequence: a nonselective 90deg pulse is followed by a nonselective 180deg pulse and a crusher gradient, 
which is applied to dephase residual transverse magnetization arising from pulse imperfections. a time delay tau between the 90 and 180deg
pulses ensures that sufficient longitudinal relaxation time takes place before inversion. the inverted magnetization is then sampled by 
the immediate application of a slice selective, low flip angle excitation, which results in the acquisition of the outer-most line of k-space.
the readout gradient is then reversed twice to enable the acquisition of two further echoes. the phase encoding scheme is such that the 
additional echoes are encoded for different bands of k-space, this procedure is repeated until these three lines for all slices have been
acquired. thereafter, the whole slices loop is continually repeated until the alloted time deltaT, the time allowed for recovery, has been
filled. in this way, the highest spatial frequency lines of each k-space band are acquired repeatedly with a temporal separation of Ts. 
following the permitted partial recovery, the whole procedure is repeated for the next set of k-space lines. compared with other methods
such as snapshot FLASH and IR EPI, the major advantage of TAPIR sampling scheme is the high apparent temporal resolution with which the 
recovery curve may be sampled. 	a time reversal of the central band echoes must be performed followed by realignment and phase correction. 
phase correction of the k-space data was performed by use of a 3-echo scan with no phase encoding, these reference data lines were 
Fourier transformed, normalized, and the complex conjugate was taken and applied to correct the acquired imaging data. 

fitting: the fitting of the measured data points for the magnetization prepared method was performed using two different software packages
and the fitted values were then compared. all fitting was based on the magnitude images of the reconstructed data sets. 
measurements: 
phantom experiments: standard spectroscopic measures of each part of a multi-compartment phantom were carried out, the phantom consisted of
eight tubes of water diluted with different concentrations of Gd-DTPA, plus an additional tube with distilled water. 

discussion:
the largest advantage of the TAPIR sequence over others is its increased sampling density along the relaxation curve. 




















