affiliate_3

new strategy: broad match modifier
	get all keywords on spyfu, ubersuggest, google keywords, and google trends 
	google trends - negative keywords
	stuff all keywords into a list, and read them manually
		put them each in their own columns with header (spyfu1, etc). 
		get an idea for where the different keywords come from based on different sources. 

	get an idea of what the different keyword sources stand for:
	google trends:

	google keywords
	
	need to be more systematic with split testing


	build a core keyword list based on the manual inspection
	a simple formula that you need to decide: how much are you willing to pay cpc, and how much do the search terms cost?
	you can optimize each campaign by looking at the payout, and assuming a certain conversion rate, choose the campaign


next week goals: apply to the top 10 offers at palo, find keywords with low cpc, that fit the formula (lower cpc than reward), 


need a way to 'alias' keywords to get lower cpc
try to take a look at your historical data if you can - see what you can do to not make the same mistakes again. 
go to the serp page in spyfu, find all the websites which appear to be succesfully running reverse mortgages, and rip their keywords/
ads, add some geos and test. make sure you do it on optimal campaigns. 
	don't use info or other types of sites

should probably get accepted for these campaigns before you start building keyword lists	

condense the keyword list down to the essential, intent-driven keywords. 
you can judge a campaign based on average epc, and then just estimate the average. correlate the epc with payout
you found the best campaigns based on conversion rate, so now you need to make landing pages and apply for all. once you have applied, start working on 
a campaign for the top offers that you are already accepted into (aging in home, epc=400, payout=10 => 40%). if you can get 100 clicks in a week, you should make
400$ according to this offer. 
need to learn how to do market research so you can set up your campaign without wasting a bunch of money 

the strategy: find best offers, find competitors that are succesfully selling those offers, copy competitors, wait, optimize keyword bids, wait, repeat, profit. 
1) find best offers, apply to offers
2) find competitors winning on offers
3) copy competitors (keywords/ads)
4) launch campaign
5) optimize keywords
6) wait
7) if (not profit) return to 5
8) profit

you need to think of it scientifically, like you're denoising your data. the noise is the crap offers and the crap keywords...you need to remove those bad 
keywords/offers and look only at what will give you profit. 

learn how to set up a landing page using html. 
don't worry about themes at the moment, just get a basic html that you can auto-generate landing pages with using numbers and strings. 

also need to think about campaigns that have a higher degree of urgency to them, locksmith, fire/water repair, etc. 
change the keywords on the solar offer. 

so now you know the average conversion rate is 20%, of the calls that actually get through to the network. 
you can judge offers with no 7 day epc based on this. (assume a 20% conversion rate, and take the best offers based on that)
what are you working with right now? 
palo: solar, health insurance, health U65 1, health U65 2, Health Medicare, 
check google adwords search terms for removed campaigns (seems like that info is gone) 
next: list all your current campaigns and their payouts/EPC, estimate epc based on payout

all about my dough but don't even check the peephole 

according to gene - behavioral health (Addiction/mental health), debt relief and home security raw - good for call only and google. 

your app is a success, with a bit of work you can make this a success as well. just make sure you're optimizing all your possibilities, for example, talking
to Gene and Danilo have yielded valuable info, so keep networking and finding people to talk to
130$ a month for STM forum is a bit steep, maybe wait till you have a few profitable campaigns, right now you should be spending more time working anyways 
get a hold of leonidas and the youtube guy (check leonidas premium sub) 

finish the payday loan campaign, switch retreaver number, let it run set max cpc to 1.50 	
home insurance with new keywords on avenge. compare it to the astoria campaign (less keywords)
solar is doing nothing (your custom keyword list blows)
work on your spyfu technique, you're probably missing out on some valuable stuff
need a way to remove plurals/variations from your large keyword lists - to condense down the number of SKAGs and get more data for each individual ad group. 

behavioral health (Addiction and mental health), debt relief, home security raw are also doing well. try to get some of these campaigns going. 
avenge - debt relief, home security, tax debt relief. set up creative for these campaigns and email avenge.
astoria - adoption (unique), locksmithx5 (urgent), creditrepair, addiction x2, chiro
palo - solar (re-do), 
surge - home security, legal auto-injury, tax debt, credit repair bundle. 

cashnetusa.com - avenge payday loan
home security

today: create debt relief domain, and apply to all those campaigns. need a generic domain that covers debt relief and credit as well, so payday loans etc.
	create a rehab domain as well. 
call about CC 

apply to home security at surge and avenge and astoria

goal today: launch 5 more campaigns, with good keyword filtering + negs, apply to more campaigns

bad keywords tend to be very general. 
do a final visual inspection of terms. more general terms can be left out for now. put an x beside bad keywords. 
or maybe just let the data do the talking, because you never know what some terms will pick up. don't try to outsmart google, just let google work. 
get two more campaigns out in the next two hours and call it a day. 
tax debt and credit card debt. fix the surge landing pages if you have time. 

today: 4 more campaigns: credit card debt, solar (palo), travel (Avenge),  hormone replacement (Astoria), + get the surge campaigns working (try to get a home
security offer as well today). 

new spying technique: get inside the mind of the user searching for a certain term, and then type what they would search. take the keywords from the sites 
organically ranking for that query and others. 

3DayBlinds 
Rehab Help Today
Knee and Back Brace
Long Distance Moving
Empire Flooring
Aging in the Home
Life Lock Identity Protection (2) 
VIAGRA and CIALIS Special Offer
Spectrum (Time Warner Cable) Double Play/Triple Play
Auto Insurance - Dynamic

need to apply for all these offers next (have all these done by end of the week, create landing page + apply today). 

today: blinds, moving, flooring 

keyword processing still not that good - need a way to remove the ing, ers, s, etc from similar words, keep the keyword lists as short as possible. 
need to start systematizing your negative keywords into batches - like: exclude_cars, exclude_young_people, exclude_seniors, etc. 

bottom line for today: need better keyword processing - include more negatives, exclude more short-tail keywords (too general), condense the list  further,
keep pushing down bad ad groups. need to start forming your negative keyword lists by category, and make sure you include plurals/suffixes (broad match 
negative keywords are exact). 

think outside the box - spyfu search terms websites that may seem unrelated but have high intent. 

getting 400-500 impressions a day, only 2 clicks today. longer conversations but intent was still bad.
tomorrow - set up 3 more campaigns, and more facebook ads (5 total, different wording and images). 
it has to start working eventually, just keep trying offers untill something pops. right now you've eliminated most of the bad traffic, so its just a 
matter of upping your bids and getting the good high intent traffic while testing more offers and improving your string processing.

next week, start venturing into landing page traffic while continuing to set up campaigns. 








