affiliate_5

this week: keep optimizing campaigns, and and at least 1 campaign a day.
start improving your landing pages and looking into alternative, cheaper traffic sources. 
start testing different landing pages and see if you can drive some organic traffic to your pages. 
focus on the rehab campaign, make more landing pages and drive some display traffic as well as more facebook ads to these landing pages. 
your goal is to have 1 rehab conversion by the end of next week. 

speak with a counselor about entering into a substace abuse treatment program press 1
for anything related to alc or narc anonymouse, drug testing, or court order assessment press 2

call to book flight landing page - market it as an offer to talk to a sales representative about getting a cheap flight somewhere. 

starts with "if you're looking to book a new flight, please press 1". 

put the payout in the campaign title as well, so you know how to adjust your bids

tonight: home security apply goojibear and check other campaigns to apply to 

goojibear - adoption (11-85$), home security (65$), walk-in tubs (35%$), hvac (14$), viagra (6.50$) 

need a new strategy - be more selective with your keywords and only take the high intent keywords that you can pick out manually from the list ie water, flood, etc

try a new strategy where you have intent + type combinations as adgroups, and geolocs as keyword combos within the ad group. 

try using a higher bid with these more specific local keywords, only use high paying campaigns though.

new campaigns: 
apply to more household type campaigns - 
western exterminators 10.50 for 90sec x
presto-x pest 10.50 for 60sec x
replacement siding 17.50 for 90sec x
replacement windows 17.50 for 90sec x
home warranty 11.50 for 90sec
adt home security 50$ for 180sec x
empire flooring 20$ for 90sec x
allstate insuance (home, car, health, life) 11$ for 95sec
garage door 12$ for 120sec x
chiro 13$ for 90sec
stairlift 8$ for 30sec 
safestep tub 13$ 60sec


today: garage door, pest control, and windows/siding. try the new approach with the keyword permutations + location. 
add new thing: multiple spyfu keyword root - use more than one keyword to get the root websites, ie "pest control", "exterminator,", etc

tonight: finish 4 more campaigns (pest control, windows, floor, siding, astoria ADT home security (50$), garage door) using the new approach,
deleting: astoria_homeowners, avenge_ccdebt, astoria_water damage, avenge_payday loan, avenge_tax debt

download all the keywords for floor/siding, then work on didactic while waiting for adwords to upload

need to work on better gelling the offer ad text with the IVR - should lead to less bogus clicks, especially if you use highly targeted keywords

next approach (assuming location targeting doesn't work) - start manually scrutinzing your lists (you probably have close to a million different 
keywords now, you can start building massive intent and negative keyword lists, that you can pair with subject keywords for automatic campaign generation. 

goals for this weekend: start learning the adwords api, and apply to 5 more campaigns. start thinking about ways to leverage all the keywords/data you've acquired 
so far. 


