affiliate_goals

tomorrow:
create a bing adwords account (supposedly cheaper and better than google adwords)
apply to and create websites for 10+ campaigns.
(got 5+ for Palo, fill in some content and apply, message Gene). 
go through the email from astoria and get that campaign up and running with a website
	got the number, now set up the website and start bidding on keywords
avenge offers - go through these and create some insurance websites
	use the 844 number
surge calls - pet insurance, fire/water damage, garage doors, tubs, home security, testosterone

start some ad campaigns on google try to get your first conversion by early next week

create fire damage and water damage and insurance repair landing pages tonight, start campaign

got some SKAGs up and running in adwords and BING, copy the call only

right now your max daily spend is 10+15+7+5+10+10 = 59$...remove one Campaign (Pip Science Skag)

you can test permutations of different ads and SKAGs, average SKAGs across all ads. 

goal today: automate SKAG creation in google and bing, create large skags for all campaigns that you have numbers with 
check out semrush adwords tool - for keyword discovery. ubersuggest is also good for long phrases
create matlab script which automates broad match modifier keyword creation - still need to think about how you will modify this.
don't forget to install matlab downstairs before you leave
broad match modifier with city/town keywords. 
check out advertising fundamentals (google certification)

adwords editor - put the city/state in the description

if there is no other way, you can create strings from matlab and save them as excel...for example each ad has the following:
you want:
	location (town, state), and insert zip for IVR, pick shorter keywords (more human-friendly also) 
	just put: find experts in : x town, state
	call now! need only your Zip
24/7 + location + experts on hand
do it for a single geo that you know responds (testosterone is down atm, use fire/water) 

ads, ad extensions, 

sort them by reach and remove the small ones? or show only the small ones? 

watch your queries for negatives - prune the traffic to get only the leads most likely to convert

simple task - create a list of the largest cities, use broad match modifier in combination with keywords for headline 1&2, use same
description for all

(do all this in matlab, and prune cities so you only get from the state you want) 

then, for each keyword (50 or so, take the top 50 cities (50*50 = 2500), and create that many ad groups, or use only 10 keywords and
10 cities (100 ad groups). problem with 2500 ad groups is you won't have enough data, of course, you can average over keywords or 
areas.

to start: just restrict it to the different states, and advertise all your keywords with some description

Great Rates for First Time Buyers!
First Time Buyers Welcome! Call Now
24/7, 7am-5pm, etc

experiment #1: with and without location data. 
without: keywords only, restrict to states but no location on ad or in keyword
with: create a bunch of keyword permutations where the location is part of the keyword

you can automate campaign creation as well as ad group creation 
got the ad group up and running, now do the same for fire damage. 
change the adgroup to reflect the phrase that you insert. use the keywords as normal though. 

goal today: get your first conversion, create ad campaigns for all available offers, apply to more offers

before you smoke: apply to all health insurance offers for palo, set up the auto insurance ads

today: continue running car insurance and fire/water, 

make a matlab script that automatically creates the campaign based on keywords, just enter the values as strings.

new plan: spyfu+matlab, auto create large campaigns, look for auto correction
get better at spyfu and full automate campaigns
make sure your ad text is getting through to users, for less dropped calls. 
confirm hypertarget network 
set up offers to run for health insurance and other water/flood damage, have 5 more running by tonight (pause and then set them all up
to run 15$ a day or something). 
get facebook ads up and running, start a campaign in bing with something you know works (might need to improve the landing pages also)
get the creative for pet insurance 

need to be pickier with keywords - filter out all non high intent buyers (any infographic etc ads), and ad locations to get the long 
tail conversions. 
try this with the mold campaign - just use a very simple campaign, with very clear and direct message, and put a BMM keyword for all
locations, as well as the most commonly searched mold removal term. (call the number first, as always) 

do 2-3 more campaigns tonight (location only) and then tomorrow see whats working and get setup with Bing 

once you know which campaigns kind of do and kind of don't pan out, you can start getting more systematic.
you need more data. pick a campaign with a smaller payout and run it for 2 weeks straight. use a single campaign, but vary the 
parameters in a systematic way
ex: keyword match type: broad, bmm, phrase, exact

now, you see how the market operates - bids on page position
you want to apply filters to your clicks - get only the clicks that are likely to convert - that way you pay less and your profit
goes up. 

spyfu -estimated clicks/month, 

get the highest performing keywords in the highest performing cities and combine those for 1000 ads per campaign 
(10 keywords, 100 cities), so its just keyword + city. 
start with flooding, and try different permutations


try broad and phrase with water, flood, fire, and mold. 
then, use the keywords only (no locations). so you will have 12 campaigns running simultaneously 

correlation between affiliate marketing and the stock market? better to run some offers at certain times than others? 

need to better organize your campaigns - get a standard keyword format, and get all your campaigns into that format
	this will also allow you to better transfer over to bing
bing - landing page is more important (not just call only), so put more work into those. 

start working on other campaigns like health insurance and auto insurance, do more spyfu research, competitors + locations?
you need to target high call intent long tail keyword phrases only - save your money that you're wasting on no intent keywords like
"water damage" or "mold". you may get less impressions but the conversions should go up. 
use broad, exact, and phrase all in the same ad group

new plan: high converting keywords only, copy ads, use 3 match types, standardize the naming convention, use retreaver, 
multiple callout extensions (vary length), automate ad creation (multiple ads per ad group). 
organize your folder into a bitbucket account, back up your progress every night. 
get more keywords than just spyfu's servpro

first things: naming convention for adwords campaigns
you have the following fields:
affiliate network (palo, astoria, etc), 
offer (home repair, flood damage repair, etc),
split/landing page (specific subtypes of the offer) 

each campaign will hence be the following: 
network_offer_split_phone# 

retreaver allows you to place a different number in your ad, and it then routes the call to the network after, so you can track and
record calls. 
so, just create a 1:1 mapping between your network numbers and your retreaver numbers

need high commercial intent keywords

next experiment - use servpro ads, use commercial intent keywords only, rotate ads.
create a single campaign, cap it at 50$/day, and run it for an entire week. 
step 1: set up retreaver with fire and water damage number (astoria) (done)
step 2: get high commercial intent keywords for water, flooding, fire, mold, and all other types of fire/water damage 
root keyword filters: fire, smoke, water, flood, mold, and mask with intent (done)
step 4: remove previous campaigns and start from scratch (done)
step 5: create campaign using locations, import keywords and ad groups (done)
step 6: create call-only ads using matlab  (done)
step 7: post campaign and wait for results, tweak ad groups as impressions/clicks arrive - waiting

still need to add multiple ads to each ad group (later)









