affiliate goals today:

finish the matlab scripts to create multiple ad groups at once. 
add negative keywords list to remove cars, ipads, etc. 
create new campaigns for the following offers: 
surge auto insurance-uninsured (7.00, 120s)
mold removal campaign (17.50$, 90s)

intent search terms getting quite low impressions - probably normal, these people are more likely to buy so their clicks are worth more

do mold removal first, because you still have all that fresh code from water/fire damage, then move back to spyfu and do auto insurance
find out what ring pools is, what it does and how it can help you

combine paid and organic keywords into a single file (load them both, then concatenate the matrices) 
need a mold removal landing page

by the end of the day: 4 campaigns up and running, in adwords and bing, landing page for all of them (bing)

should also add the city as an intent keyword (to further filter intent?) 
you can also take the first 2000 instead of just the first 1000 keywords in spyfu, for more keywords. 

by the end of next week you want to be breaking even or profiting every day. 

today: apply to two more networks, finish your personal website (put some ads/creative), start 2-3 more campaigns 
(health insurance, pet insurance, and another)

paid traffic using google adwords and bing, call only ads (google) and call extension (bing) with landing page
landing page for call only ads:
http://householdtop.com/mortgage-help/
slack: Russell Butler, die666DIE

get a list of all states and major cities/towns and run that against your keywords
mold/fire water don't seem to be very profitable - try to optimize the auto insurance campaign so you're breaking even today, and
then add more profitable campaigns later

ad privacy policy, contact us, about us to all landing pages
today: set up low T (again) and solar, apply to home security at surge, astoria, and palo	
get retreaver adwords integration working 
apply for astoria home insurance and final policy insurance
check out the CJ offer you've been approved to

listen to calls, use what the people say to find keywords 
immediacy - solar is not the greatest, things like towing, or painkillers are much better because people are more likely to pick up the phone and call. 
ads - polar opposites
check the geographic data - use the locations with the highest rank and lowest cost per conversion 

today - add conversions to all your ads, start 2 new campaigns, continue to optimize current campaigns look for more info on how to run profitable ppc campaigns
look for campaigns that have a sense of urgency - locksmith, painkillers, etc 
chiropractors, pest control, plumbing, locksmith 24/7
you want to be running minimum 10 campaigns at all times, right now you only have 5 which means you need 5 more up and running today. 
re-watch the youtube crash course

prefixes and suffices: 24 hour, affordable, get, hire, need, find
	near me, companies, 

need to clean up keyword permutations that you get from spyfu
strip the keywords and then build them back up using prefixes and suffices? or just use the spyfu keywords only. 


success/break even formula : find the cost per conversion and then set your bid so that the payout is greater than or equal to the cost per conversion

breaking news donald trump
knock off ad
re-use data
pre-qualify
facebook messenger ad

today is about discipline and getting facebook ads working. don't exceed your 50$ max, and be getting impressions/clicks in facebook by the end of the day with
a matlab pipeline to create the campaign automatically. 

-50% ROI by the first week according to danilo lee. so if after a week of running ads and seeing no improvement or less than 50% return, cut the campaign. 
according to raj, 50% of his income comes from SEO, so he gets people coming to his website based on the keywords alone. 
you may have to work on that, another thing to get working is learning htlm so you can create landing pages automatically, with all the keywords that you need
automatically inserted into image tags and descriptions. 

can use the facebook demographics to improve your google/bing campaign demographics 
target the correct geos within the correct offers. this is 90% of the battle

need to get strategic with your offers - 7 day EPC, 
calculate the conversion rate for each offer. 
7 day epc = 4875$, payout = 65$, => every call generates 49$, 4875/65 = 75 => 75% conversion rate , 75 conversions per 100 calls

viagra offer: 8.67 payout, 143$ epc => 1.43$ per call, 143/8.67 = 16 => 16 conversions for every 100 calls => 16% CR
check out your # calls and conversion rates

ageing in the home - 500$ epc, 10$ payout, 500/10 = 50, 50/100 = 1/2 = 50% CR => you need to be paying <5$ per call, if you are getting >5$ CPC you will be
losing money.

home security 50$/call, 1309 EPC => 13$/call, 1309/50 = 26, 26/100 = 0.26 = 26% CR, which means you need to pay 0.26*50 = 13$ per call or less (once you have the 
calls dialed in). look for offers where conversion rate is high, and $/call is also high

use competitive payouts - look at different companies, and run the offer with the best payouts
partner up with trustworthy networks - read their reviews and background histories
monetize all quality traffic - take advantage of bundling features that allow you to create generic campaigns, route traffic to the advertiser most likely to
conver the call based on a set of conditions like location, time, and repeat vs new call
optimize campaigns for better performance

tomorrow - copy your campaign, but change the match type to phrase and exact, test those campaigns.  

criticism of the current approach - you treat it too much like gambling, not enough strategy. checking your adwords every 10m to see if you got another click
is not the way to win at this game. 

wait till 11, if you still get no impressions, raise the bid.

negative keywords - this is like the filter that you apply to your searches, it removes bad searches. 
but you really don't have enough data at the momment to make a quantitative type of judgement on which are good and which are bad, you can only look at the keywords
and make an educated guess what the buyer's intent was when they clicked on it. 

maybe try a different approach - see if you can get people to go to a landing page and test this 

need to do more research, find out what is trending and what is not, find a way to test campaigns before you waste money running them, 

make a heat map in matlab that shows search terms as a function of geo. take only the top keywords and only the top geos. 

use a not mask for the negative keywords - get google trending keywords, and use negatives for the mask of the keywords you don't select from the list. 
use broad match modifier, not broad match (put a + sign in front of all keywords) 

new approach: try the rising/top terms for google based on a root keyword, using bmm, with a strong neg. keyword list, and value offering ads with strong CTA
filter for intent and then sell hard. 	

today: quickly set up a new home insurance campaign, and test it using bmm. keep all other campaigns paused for now, delete one and reuse number. or just re-use home
insurance number. 

another way to define negative keywords - get the spyfu list, and find only the good terms, then just take keywords from terms not matching yours, and build a neg.
list from those terms. the negative keyword list is just as important as the positive keywords list, in fact, they are equivalent. 

a simple campaign with a few keywords and negative keywords. create it in matlab using create_campaign, after defining the lists first
change bid adjustment based on the best locations? 

need to think of a way to build up a negative keyword list fast
do the keyword processing in a separate script, and build the campaign in another script. 
need some element of manual intervention, to weed out bad keywords, but also automatic so you can process large lists
get all keywords for a campaign - spyfu, google trends, and ubersuggest. concatenate all these lists and view them in excel, mark them if they are good, x them if 
they will make up part of the negative keyword list. 

still need to set up the proxy, and user agent for mobile on desktop

need to get position 1&2 on mobile, it will make or break your keywords

create the suffix/prefix list from all these in excel. 

solar: try the 12*5 keyword list with a simple campaign

new plan: get as many keywords as you can, condense the list, comb through it by eye to find root terms and domain specific negative keywords,
combine root terms with geos/intent, create ads and wait. (use bmm for all keywords) 

tonight: 2 more campaigns (24/7 campaigns), add to your negative keyword and intent keyword lists. 
create negative keyword and intent keyword lists for different types of vertical











