apponomics_discovery

app discovery apps are apps that help users find other apps, ranging from daily app deals, to deal finder apps. 
daily deal apps: negotiate deals with app developers to offer users a single deal per day, cheap or free apps and a boost in downloads
which can help push their app up the charts. 
deal finders: helps users find apps aligned with their tastes when they go on sale. 

alternative app stores: an increasing number of developers are exploring other routes than just getting placed in google play.
publishing your app on multiple stores increases your chances of monetizing or gaining exposure for your android app. alternative
app stores often have benefits compared to google play, such as superior app discovery features and incentives. also, the chances of
your app being featured on alternative stores are 20x higher than on google play. 
a good way to understand the dynamics for app stores is to consult with other developers via blogs, forums to learn about their exp. 
there are hundreds of independent app stores. some of the top ones:
1) amazon app store, the primary contender to google play. 
2) getjar - offers premium apps for free, and then monetizes that traffic with advertising dollars. 
3) lg smart world - an app store exclusive to lg phones, holds 5.1% of global smartphone market share. 
4) mobango - 8 million users, with major publishers, 100,000 apps. 
5) opera mobile store - browser based app serving andorid, windows phone, ios, etc. 
6) samsung apps mobile
7) slideme market global reach, comes pre-installed in 140 OEMs. 
many others (See list on page 40). 

distributing through alternative stores comes with its own share of challenges: 
1) marketing and management - different publication requirements, ranging from dozens of different screenshots, to differen ratings
2) bothersome bureacracy - a local presence remains the best route, if you want to manage the everyday business and stay on top of
red tape. 
3) limited resources - time is money. it takes a lot of time and focus to publish, which means you may not have as much time to spend
on your real business which is making great apps. 

how to cash in on the benefits?
1) be smart - find the best store, with the least bureacracy
2) be selective
3) be innovative - your apps and games are where you make money, and you need to innovate. 

inmobi - publishes in over 140 different app stores simultaneously 

key resources for monetization models: 
adeven: analytics and ad verification company, uses apptrace which is a free online tool for understanding how, when, and where apps
perform. offers global app rankings that can be sorted by 155 countries, device, and price, providing you with key market data. 
also publishes MASR, giving information on most trendy and addictive apps in major categories. 
app annie- more analytics 
distimo appIQ - insights into download volume, and revenue
inmobi insights - thought leadership portal on mobile advertising
priori - great resource for identifying trending categories, business models, and the most popular publishers and apps. 
developer economics - a research series produced by market analysis and strategy firm visionmobile

some good keywords: stocks investing simulator
fitness workout progress tracker with timer
action rpg
stock market app - rainbow + sounds. 

goal: have 4 apps released by christmas, averaging 10$ per day, or at least have 1 10 dollar day. 

eric seufert - fremium economics 

the next app - re-do the forex price action app, but with more data and better keywords (stocks, futures, indices, etc), put adds, allow 
user to download data 

the overall goal is to keep creating apps, and with each app that you create, add to your skillset and code base. 
so, for the first app, you just wanted to get experience publishing an app on the app store
for this workout app, you want to add ads and in-app purchases, while improving the menu
for the next app (forex version 2.0), you want to have in app purchases, adds, and be downloading data from online databases
then, move on to web crawling or integrating multiple users. 
the next app - add push messages, and in app purchases downloading from your server - push messages to indicate when a specific currency
has reached a buy/sell point. 

your goal is to beat 68$ a day on average, by next christmas. 
"custom workout planner with timer"	
"my fitness workout planner + free timer"
funnels - getting a user to convert on a desired action. prompts and nudges, that induce the user to spend money on your app. 
push messages - a reminder to users to buy shit
5% of users make in-app purchases - sell your app for 5$, 100k downloads in a year (good keywords) => 25,000$

personalized push messages to a key subset of users. 

FTP client and cpanel file manager


