app store optimization 
android has 2x downloads of apple, but apply has 2x revenue of android - apple is more profitable for devs
most downloaded types of apps: 
email, chat, social networks, utilities, maps, gps, games, music, banks, online video, dictionary/translator, image processing,
purchase, transport, sports, health/well being, fashion, pay parking, car related, others. 
7/10 apps are discovered through simple search of the app store, so tricking the search engine is importances 
non-organic installations come through paid channels. 
important factors: app name/ title, description, category, icon, screenshots, video preview, size of app. 

keyword selection process: 
1) selection of keyword groups
2) selection of main word (top term)
3) creation of key texts
4) title (Adapted to top keyword)
5) short description, description

what are the trends in searches, and which terms have less competition? 
google keyword tool, semrush, google suggest (keyword generic) 
sensortower, appnique, keywordtool.io (App specific)

off-metadata ASO factors: ASO elements we cannot control in a direct way, but which are indirectly powerful
installation volume, speed of installation, user engagement (Average and total #), comments, website mentions.

conversion factors - if the user downloads your app after viewing it? 
keys to getting higher in the rankings - more downloads, faster downloads, recurrent use, and high ratings 

ASO involves three phases: 1) research 2) optimizing 3) monitoring
1) define the best keywords: define the apps keywords and which apps are ranking through those keywords. find out which words are 
less used, and amoung those, which can be used for higher positioning in ASO tools. locate keywords to position the app in other 
countries, analyse the category where similar apps are, look over icons, screenshots, and videos of competition and improve on that,
inspect ratings and comments of competition to detect weak/strong points. 
phase 2: use keywords in name/description, chose the best category, design a simple, attractive logo, design attractive screenshots
that compel users to download, upload a great video. 
3) monitor rankings with ASO tools, monitor competition rankings with ASO tools, compare the situation of our app with competitors in 
terms of rankings of keywords. analyze and redefine strategy to optimize app in the store. assess users comments and feedback. 

main tools:
ASO tools: app annie, sensor tower, mobile action, apptweak, appnique
attribution: emma, apps flyer, adjust, kochava, mobile app tracking
user feedback: 	appbot, apptentive, polljoy

get the most out of available characters to optimize keywords, and do heavy research to select good keywords. 
use A/B tests to see what works best for the app. think globally

how to make my app known by the public? 
2 kinds of channels 
1) branding communication plan a) foster our own channels, b) send press releases to special media, c) count on celebrities
influencers, and early adopters, d) use offline channels (Tv, radio, etc). 
2) performance acquiring plan: a) design and optimize a social ads study, b) mobile display ads (stimulated/non-stimulated) 
c) search ads (google search). 

app indexing: possible with native apps now. helps get new downloads and improves applications traffic. 

you want 4 apps live by the time you go to cuba - this one should be done by next friday, what next? 
remember you only have x amount of energy in a day - don't waste it on sites like breitbart cnn and bb.com, use it all to make money

google's adwords keyword planner

more analytics:
Mobile Action
Sensor Tower
SearchMan
TUNE's app store analytics
app annie

next app - heat map for various utilities (clubs, restaurants, grocery stores, etc). use google maps and google data. 
targeting your group - forex get rich quick scheme - target the male insecurity about having a small wallet. 
fear drives demand - make people fear missing out. how to generate revenue? subscription based is best, most obvious ex. is netflix. 
make it so the user can download all data, but they have to pay to replenish their stock (recurring sales). allow them to buy a 
subscription to access unlimited data

keywords: avoid, challenge, dangerous, last chance, removal, last second, right now, security, survive, uncover.
buy traffic and use it to test the waters for your idea 












