assessment of bbb disruption using DCE MRI: a systematic review
systematic review of DCE MRI
assess pathologies studied, scanning protocols, and analysis methods
dce shown to provide valuable information in growing application field
low inter-study comparability due to variability of acquisition and analysis methods
consensus based recommendations for data acquisition and analysis are needed

introduction: there is increasing recognition of the importance of BBB in stroke, aging, dementia, and MS, as well as more 
commonly studied pathologies such as tumors. DCE mri is a method for studying BBB disruption in-vivo. there are large variations
in the type of DCE MRI sequence, imaging protocols, and contrast agents used. studies also use a variety of different methods
for data analysis, mainly based on model-free analysis, and the patlak/toft models, which results in ktrans values varying
widely. DCE MRI provides valuable information in a large variety of applications, from grading of primary brain tumors, to 
more recent applications such as subtle assessment of bbb dysfunction in AD. 

introduction: the BBB separates the parenchyma of the CNS from the blood. quantitative information can be obtained about the
integrity of the BBB using DCEMRI, which has proven valuable in the assessment of pathologies affecting the BBB such as MS,
tumor, and acute ischemic stroke, these pathologies have large effects on the BBB, but more subtle effects may also be 
important in pathologies such as cerebral small vessel disease, diabetes, and alzheimer's disease. a variety of different MR
sequences, contrast agents, and time courses have been employed to study BBB pathology using DCE MRI. there is also no 
standardized way for analyzing the data, relatively simple non-model based methods as well as a range of pharmacokinetic models
exist. this work provides an overview of all applications and scanning protocols used in DCE-MRI of the brain, first by 
describing the important components of the BBB and available permeability models, the review the available data on BBB
permeability imaging. 

background:
BBB functionality: the BBB is formed by endothelial cells that line brain capillaries and are sealed by tight junctions, which
are unique to the brain microvasculature. the endothelium of the BBB interacts with several cellular and non-cellular elements
such as astrocytes, pericytes, microglial cells and basement membranes, that provide both functional and structural support to
the BBB. together, they form an interactive cellular complex, the neurovascular unit (NVU). the BBB regulates the passage of 
essential molecules such as glucose while restricting the diffusion of potentially harmful substances. many brain pathologies
are known to cause a disruption of the bbb, the mechanisms that cause the opening are many, and differ across types of disease.
in meningitis, for example damage to the BBB is is initiated by extrinsic systemic factors, such as infections and 
auto-immune processes. others such as AD and ischemic stroke are though to activate intrinsic cellular mechanisms secondary to
the neuroinflammatory injury and other as yet unknown processes. 
measurement of bbb disruption using DCE MRI: disruption of the bbb can enable the extravasation of low molecular weight MRI
contrast agents. this accumulation of material in the extravascular extracellular space of affected tissues leads to an
increased longitudinal relaxation rate and therefore increase signal intensity in T1 weighted images. intravenous injection
followed by the repeated acquisition of T1-weighted images provide measure of signal enhancement as a function of time. these
kinetics can be used to extract quantitative information regarding bbb integrity. signal changes caused by extravasation are
determined by several factors including tissue perfusion and capillary permeability. 
analysis of DCE MRI data: relatively simple visual assessment of enhancement curves, or more complex fitting of pharmacokinetic
models have been used. area under the curve or time to maximum enhancement provide semi-quantitative measures of BBB disruption,
such measures are easy to obtain but difficult to interpret. quantitative analysis, however, aims to provide a link between the
tissue signal enhancement and physiologically relevant parameters such as microvascular permeability, blood flow, blood volume
fraction, and interstitial volume fraction. 
in order to relate the measured signal enhancement to the contrast agent concentration, an appropriate signal model is needed. 
early DCE-MRI studies assumed a linear relationship between signal enhancement and contrast uptake, but it is well known that
signal enhancement is highly dependent on intrinsic tissue and acquisition parameters. more complex approaches were developed in
order to control for the effect of tissue characteristics, such as pre-contrast longitudinal relaxation time and longitudinal 
and transverse relaxivities of the contrast agent. 
pharmacokinetic modeling was first introduced for the analysis of DCE MRI in the early 1990s and since then improved imaging
techniques (temporal resolution and contrast to noise) and better understanding of the underlying physiology have promoted the
development of several more complex pharmacokinetic models. 
target parameters of pharmacokinetic modeling in DCE MRI are the fractional plasma volume Vp, the fractional interstitial 
volume Ve, the plasma flow Fp, and the permeability-surface area product PS, which measures the rate at which contrast agent
particles leak out of the plasma and into the EES per unit tissue volume and plasma concentration. an important physiological 
parameter that is widely reported in DCE MRI is the volume transfer constant Ktrans, which is the rate at which the contrast
agent is delivered to the EES per volume of tissue and contrast agent concentration in the arterial blood plasma. while PS and
Ktrans are sometimes used interchangeably, PS represents the clearance for contrast agent leaking from the capillary plasma 
into the EES, ie the flux of the contrast agent across the BBB normalized to the tissue plasma concentration and tissue volume,
while Ktrans is the contrast clearance normalized to the arterial plasma concentration and therefore depends on the plasma flow
Fp supplying the capillaries in addition to PS. Ktrans is necessarily equal to the product of plasma flow Fp and the extraction
fraction E (ie the fraction of contrast agent molecules that leak into the EES). 
most pharmacokinetic models require the AIF to be known, which describes the tracer concentration in blood plasma over time. 
there are several ways to determine the AIF, including the use of a standard function, experimentally derived population 
averaged AIFs, and simultaneous individual assessment of AIF in a feeding vessel close to the tissue of interest. 
the conventional tofts model considers isodirectional flux of tracer between the two well-mixed blood plasma and EES
compartments, with the volume transfer constant Ktrans. the plasma compartment is assumed to have negligible volume, vp=0, 
which makes the classic Tofts model a one compartment model for weakly vascularized tissues. this model was extended by 
introducing the blood plasma as a second well-mixed and highly perfused compartment, which allows, in addition to Ktrans and
Ve, the fractional plasma volume Vp to be estimated separating enhancement effects due to contrast leakage from those due to 
intravascular contrast. if the model fits the data well with a non-negligible Vp value, the tissue must be highly perfused, 
and the system is permeability limited with Ktrans = PS. 
finally, the Patlak model also describes a highly perfused two-compartment tissue but considers unidirectional transport from 
the blood plasma into the EES. a linear graphical analysis methods was proposed which is often used as it permits simple and
fast fitting of the data. in this analysis, the ratio Ct(t)/Cp(t) is regressed against integral(0,t)[Cp(tau)*dtau]/Cp(t) 
yielding a straight line with slope Ktrans and intercept Vp. 

results: 
pathologies studied: 
the majority of animal studies concerned intracranial neoplasms, including a total of 147/407 animals. five publications 
investigated changes in the BBB induced by focal ischemia, and one study each focused on the effects of pneumococcal meningitis.
the pathology most studied in humans was intracranial neoplasms including primary brain tumors and brain metastases (716/1564),
eleven investigated changes caused by stroke and/or cerebrovascular disease, eight on MS, other pathologies included MCI, AD, 
brain tuberculomas, infective brain lesions, multiple system atrophy, diabetes, and neurocysticerosis. 
BBB changes in disease: 
13 of the 70 studies aimed to investigate a link between a particular disease and BBB function, so BBB integrity was quantified
and compared to disease state. 8/13 studies found significant differences, including ischemic stroke, pneumococcal meningitis,
diabetes, vci, brain metastases, ms, mci, zinc deficiency, ad, and small vessel disease. mci and normally aging beagles showed
no difference. DCE-MRI was also able to distinguish between different tumor types, and grades, and significant differences were
found between infective vs neoplastic lesions, severe and mild vs moderate tbi, and radiation necrosis vs tumor recurrence. 
contrast agent and dose: in most cases, Gd-DTPA was used (40/70 studies), most cases standard bolus (0.1mmol/kg), but ranged
from 0.02-0.5mmol/kg, and a fixed dose, no study investigated the influence of different contrast agent or type. 
scanning techniques and field strength: most commonly used: spoiled gradient-recalled echo and its ultra-fast variants, as well
as 11 other GE methods and six spin-echo methods, T1-mapping of partial inversion recovery (TAPIR).
duration and temporal resolution of DCE-MRI: the duration of data collection following contrast agent injection varied widely
from 2.1 min to 155min. the highest temporal resolution of 1s was found in tumor studies, whereas a study on diabetes used a 
temporal resolution in the range of 10-30min. it was also found that reduced scan time and lower temporal resolution resulted 
in increased uncertainty around the pharmacokinetic parameters Ktrans, Ve, and Vp. studies involving tumors had faster temporal 
resolution, due study the faster dynamics of the neoplasm, while studies involving MS had lower temporal resolutions due to the
slower leakage rates observed in that disease.
use of post-processing techniques: the most common was motion correction, though 42/70 did not perform or report post-processing.
data analysis methods and pharmacokinetic models: visual assessment of spatiotemporal enhancement patterns in MS lesions,
calculation of semi-quantitative paremeters from the signal enhancement.
the most commonly used pharmacokinetic models were the toft, the patlak,and the modified toft, and simplified patlak. ktrans
values vary depending on the pathology studied, neoplasms showing the greatest ktrans values and normal tissues the lowest. one
methods was developed based on Tofts but only studying the first pass of the bolus, resulting in visually comparable but less
sensitive to noise and large vessels. model studies on the two methods show that patlak is more accurate for low ktrans values
and toft is more accurate for high permeability areas. 
discussion: 

the calculation of contrast agent concentration from tissue enhancement requires reliable estimation of intrinsic tissue 
parameters such as the pre-contrast longitudinal relaxation time T10. there are several methods of estimating T10, with variable
flip angle and variable saturation time delay being the most common, and mis-estimation of T10 produces a significant 
concentration bias, also, unless T1 is estimated at every time point, drifts in signal intensity may introduce further errors
into the pharmacokinetic parameters. 
second, most pharmacokinetic models require the AIF to be known, so determination of the AIF represents a key issue in the 
reliable estimation of pharmacokinetic parameters. there are several strategies for AIF selection, and the optimal method
varies based on pathology, study aims, and clinical requirements. direct measurement is preferable to standard or averaged 
AIFs, but this is not always possible and susceptible to partial volume or inflow artifacts. there is also disagreement on 
whether to describe the capillary bed in terms of blood or plasma concentration, by correcting for the hematocrit (Hct). 
other areas of uncertainty include relaxivity values specific to a contrast agent, field strength and tissue/pathology are rarely
known.
implications for future DCE-MRI studies of BBB disruption: the optimal method is highly dependent on the specific application. 
for most applications, changes in the longitudinal relaxation rate rather than the signal intensity should be used, since the
former more accurately reflects contrast agent concentration required for pharmacokinetic analysis. two critical acquisition
parameters to determine are temporal resolution and duration of scan, temporal resolution on the order of 1s is necessary to
quantify tissue plasma flow, even if this quantity is of no interest, it may be necessary to account for flow in order to 
assess permeability. for accurate estimation of the permeability surface area product, the scan duration should be long enough 
for significant extravasation to occur. if Ve is to be measured, imaging should be continued well into the washout phase, when
EES contrast agent concentration begins to fall. 
the most popular pharmacokinetic models divide the tissue into well mixed compartments, and it is essential to recognize the 
assumptions built into this model and assess their validity for a given application. the original tofts model for example is 
strictly valid only in weakly vascularized tissues, where contrast agent in the capillaries can be neglected, and fitted Ktrans
is equal to PS only when blood flow is sufficiently high. 	

















