blood brain barrier breakdown in the aging human hippocampus
questions: DCEMRI, arterial function

summary: the blood brain barrier limits entry of blood-derived products, pathogens, and cells into the brain that
is essential for normal neuronal functioning and information processing. post-mortem tissue analysis indicates bbb
damage in alzheimer's disease, but the timing of this breakdown remains elusive. using an advanced dynamic contrast
enhanced MRI protocol with high spatial and temporal resolutions to quantify regional bbb permeability in the human
brain, an age-dependent bbb breakdown in the hippocampus is shown, a region critical for learning and memory that
is affected early in ad. the bbb breakdown in the hippocampus and its ca1/dentate gyrus subdivisions worsened with
mild cognitive impairment that correlated with injury to bbb-associated pericytes, as shown by the csf analysis. 
the data suggests that bbb breakdown is an early event in the aging human brain, that begins in the hippocampus
and may contribute to cognitive impairment. 

introduction: neural functioning and neuronal computation require tight control of the chemical composition of the
neuronal milieu that is maintained by the blood brain barrier. brain endothelial cells and pericytes form a barrier
which limits the entry of neurotoxic plasma derived proteins, circulating metals, pathogens, red blood cells and
leucocytes into the cell. studies in murine transgenic models have shown that chronic BBB breakdown leads to 
accumulation of blood derived neurotoxic proteins in the CNS including fibrin, thrombin, hemoglobin, iron containing
hemosiderin, free iron and/or plasmin, causing progressive neurodegeneration with loss of neurons, mediated by either
direct neurotoxicity, oxidant stress, and/or detachment of neurons from their supporting extracellular matrix. 
alzheimer's loss (AD) is characterized by selective neuronal vulenerability resulting in progressive loss of 
memory. post-mortem studies have shown BBB in areas affecte by alzheimer's, including accumulation in the hippocamp
and cortex of blood derived proteins, and degeneration of BBB associated pericytes. brain imaging studies have
shown microbleeds and accumulation of iron in AD, particularly in the hippocampus. some studies using the CSF to
plasma ratio of blood-derived albumin reported BBB damagae in AD paricularly associated with vascular risk factors,
or in individuals at genetic risk for AD. At what stage bbb breakdown occurs and the degree to which it contributes
to cognitive impairment remains controversial, however. 
here they use dynamic contrast enhanced and post-processing with improved spatial and temporal resolutions to 
quantify the BBB regional permeability Ktrans constant in the living human brain in individuals with no cognitive
impairment NCI and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). compared to a previous approach limited to measurements of bbb
permeability in the white matter, the current method allows simultaneous measurements of BBBKtrans permeability in 
different gray and white matter regions. CSF biomarkers of BBB breakdown, injury to brain vascular cells including
pericytes and endothelial cells, inflammmatory response, neuronal injury, and amyloid beta peptides. they found an
age dependent BBB breakdown in the hippocampus, a region which is damaged early in AD, the BBB breakdown in the 
hippcampus worsened with an MCI that correlated to measures of injury to BBB associated pericytes. 	
Results: 
BBB breakdown in the hippocampus during normal aging: twelve CNS regions including hippocampus and its subdivisions
CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus different cortical and subcortical regions, and wm regions. regional Ktrans BBB 
permeability maps were generated for each individual using a modified Patlak linearized regression mathematical
analysis. the arterial input function (AIF) was determined in each individual, from the common carotid artery, 
instead of using the average value from the superior sagittal venous sinus to determine tracer concentration in 
blood. individual AIF measures are particularly important if the studied population diverges by age as changes in
blood volume and flow may affect the AIF and Ktrans measurements. unexpectedly, they found that NCI have age
dependent progressive loss of BBB in the hippocampus, as shown by age dependent increase in the Ktrans values
in the entire hippocampus, CA1 and DG, but not CA3. no significant BBB changes during aging were found in cortical
or subcortical regions, except for the caudate nucleus. there was no significant age-related change in the white
matter subcortical fibers, corpus callosum, or internal capsule, even though white matter is believed to be affected
early by vascular changes in AD. collectively, the data suggest that early vascular leakage in the aging human
brain begins in the hippocampus, that normally shows the highest barrier properties compared to other regions. 

accelerated BBB breakdown in the hippocampus in individuals with MCI: 
bbb permeability in young NCI and old NCI and MCI groups was compared. significant increase in BBB permeability in
values in hippocampus and its CA1 and DG regions was noted, but not ca3, by 41,107,and 48% in older compared to
younger NCI group, and 24,53,and 27 in MCI compared to older age matched NCI controls. there was no significant 
difference in the BBB permeability in cortical, subcortical, and WM regions between younger and older NCI and/or
MCI and age-matched older NCI patients, except for an increase in the caudate nucleus in older compared to younger
NCI group. there was no significant change in hippocampal volume between the studied groups. 
to validate the method, they studied MS cases with established BBB breakdown in the the white matter, as an added
neurological control. younger MS patients without cognitive complaints were selected and age-matched to younger
NCI controls. the MS patients did not show changes in the Ktrans in hippocampal or other gray matter CNS regions,
but had increased BBB permeability in the WM, compared to age matched NCI group. 

molecular biomarker CSF anaylsis: 
a 30% increase in the CSF/plasma albumin ratio additionally confirmed BBB breakdown in MCI individuals compared
with with age matched NCI controls, the increase in csf/albumin ratio was correlated with an increase in the ktrans
values in the hippocampus and its CA1/dg subregions, that showed an increase in the BBB permeability in MCI compared
to age-matched NCI controls. 
next, correlations between ktrans and CSF levels of soluble platelet derived growth factor receptor beta. 
PDGFRbeta is an established marker of the BBB associated pericytes, that plays a key role in maintaining bbb 
integrity. pericytes degenerate in AD, and have a key role in BBB clearance of alzheimer's toxin amyloid beta-peptide
pericytes die when Abeta ntracellular accumulation overrides their Abeta clearance capacity, and when exposed to
hypoxia. both conditions are associated with shedding of the soluble form of the PDGFRbeta receptor, from primary
human cultered pericytes. sPDGFRbeta levels were increased by 115% in MCI compared to age-matched NCI controls, 
and there was a positive correlation between sPDGFRbeta CSF levels and the Ktrans values in the hippocampus. 
to validate CSF sPDGFRbeta as a marker of pericyte injury in-vivo, sPDGFRbeta CSF levels in 16 month old pericyte
deficient mice which develop 45-50% loss of brain pericytes and 16-month old Alzheimer's mice which develop an
age dependent pericyte loss from 17% at 9 months of age to 35% at 18 months of age. there was a significant 
289 and 58% increase in sPDGFRbeta CSF levels in the mice compared to their littermate controls, indicating that
sPDGFR8beta is a reliable measure of pericyte injury in mice. 
the CSF analysis revealed no injury to other cell types in the neurovascular unit, in either NCI or MCI including
endothelial cells as shown by unaltered CSF levels of biomarkers of endothelial cell injury such as soluble 
intercellular adhesion molecules and vascular cell adhesion molecule. 

discussion: an advanced DCE MRI approach and post-processing analysis was developed resulting in improved spatial
resolution and SNR of the Ktrans BBB maps with the analysis of the arterial input function in each individual 
allowing for accurate measures of the regional BBB permeability in the living human brain in different gray and
WM regions. high resolution imaging allows for quantification of Ktrans not only in hippocampus but also in 
hippocampal sub-fields. changes in BBB permeability during tumor or stroke are typically an order of magnitude larger
than those observed here, so these methods are not required in those cases. 
they show that the BBB breakdown during normal aging occurs earliest in the hippocampus, a region critical for 
learning and memory. the BBB breakdown was more pronounced in MCI than in age-matched NCI controls, suggesting that
it may play a role in initial cognitive impairments. the data shows that BBB in areas such as subcortical or 
cortical regions remains largely unaffected by healthy aging or MCI. there was no difference noted in hippocampal
volume, suggesting that early increases in BBB permeability may underlie or precede hippocampal atrophy seen later
in AD and particularly in MCI progressing to AD. this would be similar to findings in animal models with a chronic
BBB disruption, showing that vascular leakages over time lead to hippocampal and cortical atrophy, loss of neurons,
and progressive behavioral changes. 
findings in murine models of a small vessel brain disease and human post-mortem AD studies have shown that BBB 
breakdown leads to tissue accumulation of potentially neurotoxic blood-derived products that do not normally enter
the brain, but can damage neurons when the vessels become leaky. pericyte injury and possible early degeneration
correlates with increased BBB permeability within the hippocampus, a region known to be affected by pericyte loss
and bbb breakdown on post-mortem tissue analysis. although the CSF biomarker analysis did not show evidence of 
endothelial cell injury, involvement of inflammatory cytokines and/or direct vasculotoxic effects of Abeta in MCI,
it is possible that some of these factors could play a role in magnifying BBB damage at a later disease stage. 	

in summary, the results show that cerebrovascular integrity during normal aging and aging associated with MCI that
begins in the hippocampus may contribute to early stages of dementia associated to MD. 


































