bishops talk

main concepts to convey: 

preference will be give to candidates whose research and teaching support data science development at bishops
successful candidate will be expected to particpate in teaching at undergrad and graduate, and lead independent research
program and submit funding proposals to relevant agencies at provincial and federal levels

begin presentation with personal background, mentioning what you can bring to the position and the university 
you cannot be over-prepared. make a video and rehearse. 

sample teaching - they may be interested in seeing how you engage with students

sit-down interview questions:

1) why are you interested in this position?
	a) i want the opportunity to continue my research, but develop my own lab and follow my own research agenda	
		i see the opportunity to bring different faculties together synergistically, for the benefit of all
	b) i enjoy the culture and personalities at bishops, i enjoyed my 4 years here, got along well with all profs,
		i believe i would fit in well and could have a long productive career
	c) i see teaching as a way to continually expand my own domain of expertise and enhance my research, and i believe
		i have a lot to offer, as someone who came to computer science from a non-technical background
		i have an innate curiousity about computer science concepts and theory 

2) which of our courses do you want to teach?
	a) i would be happy to teach any of the introductory courses (data science, intro to programming, intro to compsci)
	b) i'm also a very hands on person, and would like to create/revive a new course (machine learning/AI)
	c) i would also be happy to teach either of the app courses, computer vision, 
	d) big data courses, either with a cluster or an online cluster like amazon web services 

3) discuss a time you had a conflict with a supervisor or colleague
	i am very conflict averse, so the instances are rare. 
	i tend to get annoyed when people take up too much of my time/space without offering anything in return 
	one time a guy annoyed me so much i had to block him on facebook

4) how does your knowledge and experience prepare you for this position?
	1) i have been performing data science type work for the past 5 years. i consider myself an expert in numpy and matlab
	2) i have an undergraduate degree from bishops with a concentration on many of the core courses, i learned from the best
	
5) talk a bit about the theory that guides your practice and the authors who influence your work
	1) give clear notes, lots of examples, and challenging homework assignments
	2) i learned from a variety of profs at bishops, jensen/layachi clear notes and lectures, bruda/vouliouris tough assignments 
		
6) do you have any questions for us?
	computing resources - clusters, etc 
	what happens during the summer? research focused, or time off?
	possibility of internal grants? 
	is there any interest in purchasing cloud computing or computing clusters, collaborating with physics/environmental science? 
	how much collaboration is currently going on between compsci and psychology/business/exercise science departments?
	which courses do you need profs for most at the moment? 
	what is the vision for the department over the next 10 years? how many of the new MSC students do research?
	ask to see a lab or workspace, ask if they have a research office, for help writing grants etc 
	how do decisions about which course to offer get made? 
	how would you describe the culture? 
	what are the biggest challenges/obstacles currently?	
	What are the students like here?
	(Older faculty) How has the department changed since you’ve been here?
	(Younger and mid-career faculty) What was the tenure process like for you?
	How much do people collaborate here?
	How is the [insert resource you need for your research — subject pool, fMRI facility, whatever]?
	What new directions or initiatives is the area/department/university moving toward right now?
	What’s your favorite thing about living in this town? What do people do for fun around here?
	how often do you go out for beer? 
	is it considered strange to stay late? 




from reddit:
1) why did you apply here? why would you be a good fit?
	i applied here for three reasons
	1) i have a lot to offer with respect to research and data science collaborations, but i also want to start my own lab and be more independent
	2) i see bishops as an ideal environment due to proximity, collegiality, and family ties
	3) i have a lot of experience handling large datasets, in particular medical imaging dataset, and writing vectorized code in matlab/python 

2) what would you need to get started? 
	1) around 10000$ and a small room 
	2) OR, if a computing cluster exists, i could get started on online databases
	3) OR if allowed to i could collaborate more with USherbrooke to start while waiting on grants 

3) what sources of funding would you target?
	NSERC discovery grant (25-40k/year) to start, student scholarships, eventually CIHR once i have some pilot data, and companies like fitbit
	
4) what would your initial graduate projects focus on?
	building up the infrastructure for low cost experiments, creating open source code repositories (a lot of hardware has proprietary software)
	validating and testing the equipment
	performing cutting edge neuroimaging research on publically available datasets 

5) what are your teaching interests, what courses would you build
	machine learning and AI, game design, app design
	i would build a hybrid game/app design course using unity, for creating AR and VR games (as well as ordinary games)
		this could then later be merged with eyetracking and 	

6) specific questions relating to proposal in terms of impact/funding etc
7) philosophy on graduate student mentorship?
	maximal independence, but keep them on track with deadlines and goals, ie by x date have y accomplished. if they exceed expectations so much the better
	never write code for someone trying to learn to code, or at least, do so sparingly 
8) what tools would you implement in the classroom?
	hands on combined with blackboard - theory + implementation
	i think the classroom is mainly for theory, and opening up new concepts. the lab/assignments are for writing code 
	ie, the goal should be to blow their minds every time you give a lecture, and then have them go home to meditate on what they've learned 

9) what strategies would you take to ensure you get funding from x agency?
	collaborate with researchers from the CHUS, target important diseases and disorders, acquire pilot data, proof of concept 
	
10) tell us about a conflict you had with a student and how it was resolved?
	blocked francois on facebook 

questions i can ask:
1) what is the vision for the department for the next 10 years?
2) what is the expected teaching load for new faculty?

make your answers short and to the point (no rambling)
give a solid, compelling talk - practice practice practice!
do your research, don't ask about anything you can find online
go over your notes in the bathroom, before each new phase of the interview day
DO NOT TOUCH YOUR PHONE - turn it off and leave it off

treat every single person you encounter as a member of the search committee 

memorize key points, convey congeniality, that you've done homework about position and insitution, and the
potential contributions you can make based on your unique knowledge/skills/experience and ability to secure funding

treat the in-between like informal interviews. do your research so you can make informed small talk. read key publications of hiring
members, scour university and faculty websites for their mission, vision, tradition, and long-range plans. be ready to say how you can
achieve the goals of the faculty and university. 

will probably be asked to outline your first grant 
	outline first grant: NSERC discovery grant - cardiac imaging combined with high density electrophysiology 

they will ask about your research agenda, how will you proceed over the next 5-10 years, etc
	FMRI questions - resting state networks, EPI imaging, etc 



meeting with head of dpt:
ask about internal funding, what balance is expected in terms of teaching/research/admin

always have questions to ask, and tailor them to who you are talking to
-do they work collaboratively, what are expectations for tenure, research/teaching expectations
-ask targeted questions relating to the work they do ie 'i see that your work is in x, can you tell me more about that?'
	-show that you have interest in learning about your colleagues and the school 

eeg grants
if you were to write a science or nature paper, what would its title be? 

highly polish: questions about understanding of department, future research goals, and classes you would like to teach 
show subtly that you know them well - their courses, know what drives the institution, faculty, department, and colleagues. 
know their research interests. create post-it notes on each faculty member, with research highlights and other interesting facts

more detail on the questions:
1) why do you want this job?
-be confident, specific, and well structured.
-be specific 'there are 3 reasons i see myself as a good fit'

2) whats your best paper? have a sound rationale for your response. 

3) why do you work on x? surely y is more important? the reason i work on x and not y is...

4) what will you do if something goes wrong? (Grant rejected, experiments fail, etc)
-they want to know how you handle setbacks, and plan to overcome predictable hiccups
-talk about how you were persistent in publishing your neuroimage article 

5) where do you see yourself in 5-10 years time? 
	-think achievements rather than status, whats the next big question that you hope to have solved?

6) how does your work fit with the group/dpt/university?
	-identify the ways your work aligns with their needs and priority. think about particular specialisms, research 
	clusters, possible collaborations, undergraduate/graduate curriculae, interdisciplinary links to other dpts, 
	give specific tangible examples.

7) describe a course or topic that you would teach
	-think in terms of outcomes and learning objectives, what will the students get, how will it be assessed, what skills?
	-how will the course complement the rest of their studies?

8) what does good collegiaty mean to you?
	-working relationships are on the interviewers minds
	-what kind of colleagure are you going to be? 
	-how are you going to help others be successful? 

	good collegiaty means being considerate of other people's time and resources, being generous with your own time/resources
	having a complimentary skillset to your colleagues, so you can achieve the most possible 
	a healthy competition
	a willingness to take on teaching loads/courses when others may not be available, 	


9) if we offered this job, would you accept it?
	yes

	
10) do you have any questions for us? 
	-bad questions are selfish (annual leave, benefits, entitlements)
	-ill informed (things you could easily find out through the website)
	-naive 
	-GOOD questions should be very specific to the post/department, 
		-possibilities of collaborations with other departments?
		-what are the regular working hours? 


	more GOOD questions 
		-the trajectory of the department - learn about the unit's history and goals
			-why are the current courses/disciplines now present amoung the faculty?
		-why are they hiring at this time, are more open positions expected? in what areas?
		-is the size or composition of the student body changing over time? 
		-what initiatives are currently underway in the department, is the position related to any of these?
		-how are interdisciplinary enterprises handled? 
		-are there any jointly appointed faculty members, cross-listed courses, or joint degree programs with other dpts?
		-are there core or topical research centers co-sponsed with other dpts?
		-how will the holder of the new position be expected to contribute to the college's relationship with partners?
		performance:
		-how is faculty performance assessed each year? does this relate to evaluations for reappointment and promotion?
		-how is teaching quality evaluated? what kind of evidence is considered?
		-what separates a good faculty member from a great one at this institution? what kind of attitudes or work habits make for success?
		settling in:
		-how are new faculty oriented and mentored in their first year?
		-what kind of guidance is provided about tenure and promotion process?
		-what are currently the most popular courses, what type of extra-curricular activities do students enjoy? 




what WOULD your first grant be about?
	heart monitoring with fitbit type signals?
	EPI heart imaging? 
	some type of collaboration involving bishops neuroscience and mri/eeg? 
	something to do with neural networks/machine learning and medical images? 
	develop some sensor that you can put in a pillow, bathtub, etc and start doing large scale epidemiological studies
	start developing the basic validation studies behind this.

	should be something more closely related to your own research - heart vs brain? 
		-reconstruction of structure from electrophysiological signals - involve deep learning, MRI, and ephys 

stalking profs:

Bentabet
Bruda
Jensen
Allili
Khouzam

maximize the signal to noise ratio of the questions you ask the interviewers - you want to get as much info about the position as possible,
with the fewest possible questions. to do so requires that you know your own goals up front. 

goals:  1) use students to advance your own research
	2) prepare students for the job market/further education	

find a way that you can complement the current group at bishops

be more didactic in your research talk, explain the algorithms in depth 

look at people who ask questions, and take time to answer correctly and thoughtfully 
questions for students if you interact with them:
	which courses do you prefer and why? 
	which courses would you like to see offered in the future? 	


more questions:

How would you want to contribute to the campus community outside of your teaching and research?
Tell me about a specific moment from your early education experience and how it informs your teaching
teaching philosophy: what goals do you set for your students?	
pedagogy: how do you run your classroom? descibe a typical class session?
hyoptheticals: how would you address _____ in a class?
specifics: how do you work with students with learning disabilities? non-majors? etc.
course-specific issues: how would you teach _____? 
What challenges do you foresee developing a competitive research program, and what would you do to overcome them?
What resource will you need to be available to you?
How do you plan to attract grad students?

• What is my preferred style of teaching?
• Would I use new technology for teaching?
• How would I prepare myself to teach a new course?
• What would be my biggest challenge in teaching a new course?
	getting a firm grasp of the theory so i feel confident explaining it in an offhand manner 
• Would I be interested in developing my teaching skills further and which skills would I put
emphasis on?
• What kind of leadership experience do I have?
• Which leadership skills would I need to develop in the future?
• Where do I see myself at the end of the contract for assistant professor?
• What was the main contribution of my thesis?
• Who are my professional connections?
• Why do I want to leave my postdoc position?
• Several technical questions regarding my research, proposals I worked on, and papers I
wrote.
• From the chair: "What courses can you teach and what courses would you like to teach? I
hope you get the difference"
• From a Faculty: "Will you compete with your past advisers?"
• How quickly could you set up your lab? How much space would you need?
• Would you be willing to share equipment and space?
• How would you attract postdocs into your lab?

Why did you choose this school during your job search?
Where do you see this department/school/college in 5 years?
What's the teaching load like?
What's the tenure process like?
Which courses need teaching?
What kind of start-up package do you think I should negotiate? (Ask this of junior faculty.)
What's the overhead on grants? (This question tends to impress deans.)
How much does it cost to fund a Ph.D. student for 12 months?

1. Why does this position exist — what was the impetus for creating it?
2. What would a successful first year in the position look like? How will the success of the person in this position be measured?
3. How would you describe the culture here? What type of people tend to really thrive here, and what type don’t do as well?
4. What is your timeline for a decision, and when can I expect to hear back? What’s best way to ask for an update if there’s a delay?
5. what happened to mohammed 


short, medium, and long term plans for research
how big their ideal group would be, and how much it would cost equipment-wise to get started 
you were planning a postdoc before this job came up - not going into industry. 

office to office talks - you need to be ready to discuss people's research 

the chalk talk - you need to be better prepared for this. act as if you will need to give a chalk talk at some point, even if you don't

rehearse your job talk 10 times before giving it for real 
add back the slides about summarizing contributions to the field 
have your over the next 5 years elevator pitch ready to go

PhysioPostDoc, why don’t you outline for us how you envision the three specific aims of what will be your first R01 application?
who is your main competition in this field? 


Going into the chalk-talk, you should be prepared to go through your first R01 application 
(but you knew that from your previous reading, right?). Based on my experiences, you should 
actually have reasonable plans (with timelines) for 2 R01 applications. You need to be able to 
demonstrate that you have thought about how graduate students and postdocs will have projects 
that will get your shit done. And that you know how to split these projects up into Aims for 
grants that will be fundable. Make it clear that you have thought about the timeline to get
preliminary data, publish papers, etc. in order to be able to submit competetive grant applications.

Be prepared to answer these kinds of questions (in addition to attacks of your science, as in CPP):
-What will your first graduate student work on?
-What are the first papers that will come out of your lab? (hint: they better be preliminary data)
-When do you plan to write your first grant?
-Who would want to fund your research? (NIH? which institute?)
-How is your field? What makes your research unique in your field, and how can you compete 
against established labs (including your postdoc mentor)?

why do you want the job?
1) continue research in collaboration with sherbrooke, repeat the experience i had with sherbrooke, and branch out on my own.
2) the culture and life at bishops, and lifestyle of a tenure track professor appeals to me. 
3) i hvae a strong interest in computer science concepts and theory, and see teaching as a way to expand my skillset (socially and theoretically) 




