the correlation between intelligent life belief and other variables 
google play store best practices (icon, etc) 
wikipedia to audiobook app
android app bundle
brain boosting games - get the books, and then create some apps around that 
lawnmower game - or any satisfying type of game 
the range between 15-30Hz - alpha, beta, gamma, or something else? try to study this in more detail 
eeg and FMRI decoding - see how much information can be decoded from different image types, and if they are independent
apple watch app - create a heat map of average heart rate based on your location - higher hear rate in lectures, lower at home?
predict hte number of knockouts from the fights history (on each card)
create a filter for filtering out announcer voices from sportscast (ufc)
ufc fighter expressio before the fight predicting outcome?
picture registration (android app idea) - merge two (or three) pictures into a single image 
make your own trailer app - create a preview for yourself
https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/F5UNSK street level metrics for US towns and cities
acne remover app - take a picture, use machine learning to remove acne 
an app that measures how much time you spend on your phone each day, and what apps you use
ar app showing brain/other organs within an individual
parsing 10k financial reports to predict a company's future price
machine learning to predict EEG trials or hrv/eyetracking data using weights. 
k-means clustering FMRI time series before/after vascular normalization 
bayesian networks and brain connectivity
calculate the probability distribution of the brain - given a feature set, where in the brain is it from? brain clades
decision tree to find gaps in the literature, applying LDA linear discriminant analysis
data mining tinder convos to create auto tinder bot
any app (including tinder) - create an app that can query and interact with it (parasite apps) 
an app that records the hits your phone takes and displays damage each day or turns off when it gets hit
first msc project should be data mining bcg eeg data 
forward propagation for source localization - limit the weights with physical constraints 	
using loss on an EEG dataset- instead of blind source classification, why not use another loss function?
	ie instead of auto-encoders, why not learn a stimulus time series, or other physiological variable (ecg) (do same with MEG) 
eeg data augmentation - improving the learning by (rotation, scale change, shear, etc) 
using convolutional neural networks to decode FMRI recordings (PRF)
can do the same cnn for FMRI, to learn networks or weight maps. but how do you classify an FMRI signal? by the response to different images? 
create convolutional autoencoder on upsampled scalp data 
denoising auto-encoders and ultra-high resolutions vascular imaging (high SNR image for ground truth + NLM) 
generalizing EEG analysis through deep learning - removes bad channels, muscular, eye, etc in a single step.
dissociating signal from noise in the forex time series 
predicting coin toss based on video of hand tossing coin. 
subtract moving average for real time EEG classification (normalization), do the same for forex and use percent change (From mvg) 
apple watch synchronization during movie watching 
an app or scientific article that allows you to detect what type of chewing based on myographic signature (and count calories) 
conditional distribution - given price is above/below the moving average, what is the probability it will go up/down? 
effects of doctor pepper vs water on rsfc 
an app that warns you if you're stretching your jaw 
matrix multiplication game app - get fastest matrix multiplication time, use numbers from sidebar 
men and women different voice pitch for evolutionary purposes?
a general learning algorithm analagous to multiple comparisons - average value increases with multiple comparisons. 
before and after 4 years of math training - random images vs math formulas. or before and after math formula, even. 
decision trees for learning the relationship in the hcp between different modalities
species visualizer - report and update heat maps of the distribution of animals in your area, download database to start 
association rules instead of correlations in EEG-FMRI data 
feature space for FMRI clustering - which attribute to cluster on? (std, mean, fourier power, etc) 
using 'frequent item sets' for BCG classification and denoising 
baked tree - a tree that retraces but forgets what branch it was on. 
clustering on covariance and correlation matrices 
statistical and linear independence - a relationship in the matrix equations?
hockey announcer voice emotion predicting if a goal is about to be scored
a device that cancels out the sound of your own voice
smartwatch monitor for infants
word plugin that allows you to structurally sort your document in a tree-like fashion 
ranking app or rating app for picture quality, or some other attribute quality (sound picture matching etc) 
ranking or matching app	
app that performs SVD or ICA on all the iamges in your gallery, giving you the choice of components so you can select all images of yourself etc. 
bodybuilding pictures - removing the backgroudn people from the shot