cashvertising_2 - tips for selling your forex app, on the android app store and landing page. tune your mind to these two goals. landing page and app description.

bottom line: the goal of advertising is to get people to act. act NOW. we advertise for one reason TO MAKE MONEY 
THE GOAL is to move you from the mindset of a "looker" to that of A BUYER. 
you don't want prospects to make up their own minds, you want to make up their minds for them. 

what people care most about IS THEMSELVES. what your product will do FOR THEM!

WHAT PEOPLE WANT: the life force 8
1) survival, enjoyment of life, life extension
2) enjoyment of food and beverages
3) freedom from fear, pain, and danger
4) sexual companionship
5) comfortable living conditions
6) to be superior, winning, keeping up with the joneses
7) care and protection of loved ones
8) social approval

simple experiment - try different titles (landing pages) tapping into the LF8.

the nine learned (secondary) wants
1) to be informed
2) curiosity
3) cleanliness of body and surroundings
4) efficiency
5) convenience
6) dependability/quality
7) expression of beauty and style
8) economy/profit
9) bargains

however, these are not as strong as the lf8 because we're not biologically programmed to seek them out. 

tension-> desire -> action to satisfy desire
it is pleasant to satisfy the LF8, BUT it is also pleasant to READ ABOUT how others satisfied the LF8. 
the FIRST USE OF ANY PRODUCT IS INSIDE THE CONSUMER's MIND
the less imagery you convey, the less your message occupies space in the customer's mind. 

selling the scare:
fact: it takes x number of trades to know if a strategy will succeed
fact: 99% of strategies are bullshit
fact: its actually the reverse of what you think
the threat of being damaged is insidious and powerful

fear:
fear appeal is more successful when:
1) it scares the hell out of people
2) offers a specific reccomendation for overcoming the fear-aroused threat
3) the recommended action is perceived as effective for overcoming the threat
4) the message recipient believes that he or she can perform the specified action
create an issue (listerine)
deadlines and scarcity are also ways to invoke fear (limited time offer, while supplies last, etc)
you need to persuade and motivate as well as instill fear - fear them and then show how you have the solution. 
persuade your customers to be associated with your images (ie consistent trading) 

ego morphing:
ego appeal - use celebrities, or reputable people associated to your product. 

credibility by osmosis:
use science to increase credibility. 

the bandwagon effect - give them something to jump on
three types of groups 1) aspirational (Want), 2) associative (Already), 3) dissociative (do not want)

employ the means-end chain mindset - why do people want to buy your product? 

transtheoretical model: complete ignorance of product to making a regular purchasae
stage 1) precontemplation people are ignorant of your product
stage 2) people are aware of your product and have thought about buying it
stage 3) people are thinkinga bout buying, but need more push
stage 4) action, people have bought your product
stage 5) maintenance your product has become a part of their everyday lives. 
create ads that target all 5 stage, and create ads that move them from stage 1 to stage 5. 

the inoculation theory make them prefer you for life: 
warn of an impending attack, make a weak attack, encourage a strong defense. 
political example: my opponent will tell you such and such, here is why they are wrong blah blah

belief re-ranking: change their reality. 



















