1H NMR chemical shift selective imaging
introduction: 1h nmr images of human and animal tissue reflect the spatial distribution of both water and methylene (CH2) proton
resonance signals. there are several reasons for the separation of these contributions 1) the large chemical shift dispersion in 
high magnetic fields which leads to an apparent spatial shift in composite images between the superimposed H2O and CH2 images,
2) the evaluation and interpretation of proton H2O and CH2 relaxation times from NMR images, and 3) the physiological implications
of water and fat distributions for medical diagnosis. here, a chemical shift selective CHESS sequence is described, which destroys
the unwanted signal component by means of a selective 90deg excitation pulse and subsequent magnetic field gradient (homogeneity
spoiling gradient) prior to imaging of the wanted component. the new method allows the creation of either a pure water or pure
fat image. in general, water and methylene proton resonances can be distinguished by their relaxation times and chemical shifts,
ie their exact NMR resonance frequencies which differ by about 3ppm. since in-vivo spin-lattice relaxation times t1 of fatty tissue
are often shorter than other tissues, a reasonable suppression of the fat contributions can be obtained by using an inversion 
recovery imaging technique and adjusting the inversion-recovery delay to the respective zero crossing time. the method is 
applicable to any imaging magnet regardless of homogeneity and field strength, but will fail in the cases where the T1 values of
certain water resonances are similar to the t1 values of the ch2 resonances. in cases where high magnetic field strengths and 
homogeneities of the order of 1ppm are available, a true biochemical discrimination of H2O and CH2 images based on their chemical
shift will be superior. a first approach of this kind has recently been proposed, using selective saturation of the unwanted 
resonance immediately before application of conventional NMR imaging sequence. direct selective excitation of the resonance 
frequency of the unwanted component prior to imaging has been described for imaging without plane selection. in such cases, the
dual problem of selection of NMR frequencies and spatially encoded frequencies is easily cirumvented by replacing the slice 
selection pulse by a chemical shift selective pulse within the imaging sequence. 

methods: the CHESS imaging technique presented here relies on a single frequency selective excitation pulse with a flip angle of
90deg followed by a dephasing gradient (homogeneity spoiling gradient). the procedure leaves the spin system in a state where no 
net magnetisation of the unwanted component is retained, while the wanted component remains entirely unaffected in the form of
z-magnetisation. a 10ms RF pulse with gaussian shape, and a 20ms period for the application of the spoiling gradient, for which it
is convenient to use the slice selective gradient of the subsequent imaging sequence. 

results: the 1h nmr spectrum of the human hand has been acquired at 100Mhz. 