classical models for dynamic contrast enhanced MRI: 
DCE MRI is a functional MRI method where T1 images are acquired dynamically after bolus injection of a contrast agent. the data 
can be interpreted in terms of physiological tissue characteristics by applying the principles of tracer-kinetic modeling. in the
brain, DCE-MRI enables the estimation of CBF, CBV, BBB permeability surface area product (PS), and the volume of the interstitium
(Ve). these parameters can be combined to form others such as the volume transfer constant Ktrans, the extraction fraction E, 
and the contrast agent mean transit times through the intra and extravascular spaces. 
a first generation of tracer kinetic models was developed in the early 1990s and has become a standard in many applications. 
subsequent improvements in DCE-MRI data quality have driven the development of a second generation of more complex models, which 
are increasingly used, but it is not always clear how they relate to first generation models or model free deconvolution methods
for tissues with intact BBB. the purpose of this review is to clarify the relationship between first and second generation
models and model-free methods. 

introduction: development of DCE-MRI: the concept of dynamic MRI after contrast agent injection was proposed in the mid 1980s as
a way of measuring the tissue perfusion and capillary permeability to the signal changes caused by the agent. perfusion imaging
requires a high temporal resolution to capture the first pass of the bolus when most of the contrast agent is intravascular, in the
brain this enables the measurement of CBF and CBV. capillary permeability imaging uses a lower temporal resolution and a longer
acquisition time to characterize the slow interestitial uptake after the first pass. target parameters are the interstitial volume
Ve, the volume-transfer constant Ktrans across the BBB, and the permeability surface area product PS. perfursion and permeability
imaging can be combined by the use of a high temporal resolution and a long acquisition time. DSC and DCE imaging are both used,
DSC imaging estimates perfusion within the brain, while DCE imaging estimates perfusion in other parts of the body and permeability
in the brain and body. 

DCE-MRI in the brain: DCE MRI can minimize T2* effects with a short echo time, and is more linear to the concentration of the 
contrast agent.

modeling DCE-MRI: a combined measurement of perfusion and permeability with DCE-MRI requires the application of a suitable 
tracer-kinetic model to separate the contribution of both spaces. the first generation of DCE-MRI models dates back to the work of
Larsson, Tofts, and Brix in the early 1990s, commonly referred to as the Tofts models. they produce a measurement of Ve, Ktrans,
and CBV. 

aim, scope, and limitations: they will focus exclusively on tracer-kinetic models, which relate concentration-time curves to 
physiological parameters. they will ignore all problems related to the conversion of DCE-MRI to concentration, such as the precise
influence of limited water exchange, inflow errors in the AIF, or B1 inhomogeity. 
general principles of tracer-kinetic theory are reviewed first, which lead directly to model free deconvolution methods and form 
the conceptual foundation of all model-based approaches. parameters describing tissues where the contrast agent is distributed over
an intra and extravascular space are described. four alternative models of the second generation are introduced, with special 
emphasis on the boundary regimes, where they reduce to a simpler model. 
tracer-kinetic analysis: general tracer-kinetic theory of linear and stationary systems forms the foundation for model-free 
deconvolution analysis and all tracer-kinetic models. 
mass conservation: a tracer is a particular type of indicator that is chemically identical to a systemic substance of interest but
separately detectable. a standard MR contrast agent like Gd-DTPA is an indicator that is not a tracer, however, the term 
tracer-kinetic theory is still convenient to use here. 
consider a tissue with a number of inlets and outlets through which systemic substances are delivered and extracted respectively. 
an indicator may be added to one or more of these inlets. the tissue concentration C(t) is the number of indicator molecules in the
tissue relative to the total volume of tissue, C(t) is a direct measurable quantity. the indicator's volume of distribution v is 
the fraction of tissue that is accessible to the indicator, dimensionless ml/100ml. the indicator concentration c(t) within the 
distribution space is defined as the number of indicator molecules relative to the volume of the distribution. c(t) = C(t)/v. 
the indicator flux J through an inlet or outlet is the number of indicator molecules that pass through it per unit of time. by
convention, the flux is normalized to the tissue volume, so it has units of mol/min/100ml. the clearance F of the inlet or outlet
is defined as the ratio J to the concentration c at the inlet or outlet and therefore is also normalized to tissue volume. 
J(t) = F*c(t). the physiological interpretation of F depends on the mechanism that transports the indicator, in the case of 
transportation by convection, F is the flow of the carrier fluid. 
from a physics perspective, the normalization of fluxes and flows to tissue volume appears unusual, these quantities normally scale
with the surface through which they flow and have units of mol/min/cm^2 and ml/min/cm^2 respectively. normalization to volume would
therefore not produce a well defined local quantity but rather one that is dependent on voxel size. this is not the case in 
physiological flow, as the capillary bed is organized so that the inflow of arterial blood into a region of interest is proportional
to the volume of the region it is meant to feed. the fundamental assumption underlying those definitions is therefore that all
blood entering a region is feeding flow, ie, it passes through the capillary bed of a region before being evacuated. if some of 
the measured flow passes through a region unused, ie, the flow in large arteries, veins, or arterio-venous shunts, the measured
quantities will show a dependence on voxel size. 
the most general principle in tracer-kinetic theory is the conservation of indicator mass. for a tissue with a collection of 
inlets i and outlets o, the difference between the total influx and outflux is the rate of exchange of the tissue concentration,
dC/dt (t) = sum(i)[Fi*ci(t)] - sum(o)[Fo*co(t)]. this equation essentially encodes the fact that no indicator is created or 
destroyed inside the tissue. 

linearity and stationarity: a link between inlet and outlet flux can be obtained through the notion of indicator transit time, 
defined as the time elapsed between entering and leaving the tissue. since a particle can take several paths through the tissue,
indicator passage for a given inlet i is characterized by a probability distribution of transit times hi(t), hi(t) is by definition
a positive function with unit area, in general every inlet may have a different hi(t). the expected value of hi(t) is the mean
transit time Ti of the inlet i, Ti = integral(0,inf)[dt]*t*hi(t). 
in general, the transit-time distribution may depend on the time of injection tau and on the injected concentration c, in which 
case it is described by a function hi(t;tau,c). a tissue is said to be stationary if the transit time distribution does not depend
on the time of injection and it is linear if it does not depend on the injected concentration c, but these conditions are not
necessarily fulfilled. dependence on injection time is in fact quite common, as pathological processes or normal physiological 
changes alter the internal structure of the tissue, however these changes typically do not happen on timescales shorter than the
duration of the experiment. a non-linear response may occur when higher doses of the contrast agent cause a physiological response,
however it is typically assumed that these effects do not come into play at the typical standard bolus injection dose. if a tissue
can be assumed to be both linear and stationary, then hi is a function of the transit time t alone. 
for linear and stationary tissues, hi(t) describes the contribution of the inlet i to the total outflux of the tissue n terms of 
a convolution : sum(o)[Fo*co(t)] = sum(i)[hi(t)**Fici(t)]
the convolution product f**g of two functions f(t) and g(t) is defined as follows:
(f**g)(t) = integral(0,t)[duf(u)*g(t-u)], therefore C(t) = sum(i)[Ri(t)**Fi*ci(t)], the residue function Ri(t) of the inlet i is
the fraction of particles entering through i with a transit time larger than t, Ri(t) = 1-integral(0,t)[hi(u)*du].
equivalently, Ri(t) is the fraction of particles entering the inlet i at t=0 that are still present at time t. since hi(t) is 
positive with unit area, Ri(t) is also positive, decreasing, and satisfies Ri(0) = 1 . this reflects the fact that immediately 
after injection a contrast agent molecule must still be inside the region. 
the mean transit time Ti of an inlet i equals the area under Ri(t), Ti = integral(0,inf)[Ri(t)*dt]. 

model-free analysis: a typical DCE-MRI experiment considers a tissue sample with a single inlet a through which arterial plasma
flow Fp enters the tissue. the data consist of the tissue concentration C(t) and the ca(t) in the blood plasma of the feeding 
artery, this is also known as the AIF. the measured time curves C(t) and ca(t) are related by convolution with an unknown, tissue
characteristic impluse response function I(t), so C(t) = I(t)**ca(t), with I(t) = Fp*R(t).
in a model free analysis, I(t) is derived by numerical deconvolution of C(t) with ca(t), this can be performed without making any
extra assumptions about the interior structure of the tissue. since R(0) = 1, Fp can be calculated as the initial value I(0) of
the impulse response. since R(t) is decreasing, this is also equal to the maximum of I(t): Fp = max(I). the initial value I(0) is
very sensitive to numerical error and bolus dispersion error. 
a second parameter that can be obtained without making any further assumption is the mean transit time T. Integrating I(t), we
find that T is the ratio of area to height: T = integral(0,inf)[I(t)*dt] / max(I). 
under most circumstances, the volume of distribution v can be derived as well by application of the central volume theorem
v = Fp*T. v is the area under I(t), v = integral(0,inf)[I(t)*dt]. 
the central volume theorem is valid for linear and stationary tissues that have a single inlet of indicator and where all internal
transport of an indicator proceeds by convection or an equivalent mechanism (single inlet, all convection system). an important
exception where the central volume theorem is invalid is the kidney, where permeability is highly asymmetric because backflux of 
contrast agent from tubular to intravascular space is generally impossible. 
a practical problem with the application of above integral equations arises when I(t) has not yet returned to baseline at the end
of the acquisition, and the area is underestimated due to data truncation leading to underestimations in T and v. this is 
unproblematic for intravascular indicators, where T is on the order of a few seconds, so model-free measurement of CBV can be
performed with very short acquisition times. in the presence of indicator extravasation, model free calculation of v and T require
much longer acquisitions, since the interstitial transit time is on the order of minutes. 
the problems with data truncation can explain why model free analysis was originally applied only to intravascular indicators, 
de-facto to tissues with intact BBB. however the calculation of Fp does not require integration, so this parameter is not sensitive
to truncation errors caused by extravasation. in the brain this implies that model free measurement of CBF is valid irrespective of
the state of the BBB. 

compartmental modeling: 

































