clinical_cardiac_mri

cardiac anatomy
MRI provides anatomical images of the heart with high spatial and contrast resolution, in a fast and reliable fashion
spin-echo MRI is the original method (hawkes et al 1981)
contrast generated by tissue relaxation and flow effects
excited spins within blood pool are replaced by non-excited spins between excitation and readout phase, creating black or dark blood appearance
gradient-echo images provide bright-blood contrast and dynamic images
subtle anatomical structures: valve leaflets, tendinous chords, muscular traberculations, and pectinate muscles can be visualized with SSFP GE MRI (Carr et al 2001)
heart more vertical in younger/slender individuals, more horizontal in obese patients, heart surrounded by pericardial sac, connected via great arteries/veins
to the rest of the body (amplatz and moller 1993)
position of heart in thorax is relatively constant, but position of different cardiac components, their intrinsic relationship and their relationship with the
great vessels is more complex, prone to a large number of congenital abnormalities, isolated or in combination with extra-cardiac abnormalities. 
cardiac structures: 
bright blood MRI techniques with sub-mm resolution such as currently used for coronary artery imaging enable visualization of thing structures such as pectinate
muscles in right atrial appendage

main components of heart: right atrium, left atrium, atrial septum, ventricles, right ventricle, left ventricle, ventricular septum, valves, coronary arteries,
pericardium, great vessels

cardiac function:
since many cardiac diseases have an impact on the performance of cardiac pump activity, assessment of cardiac performance (Cardiac function) in an accurate and
reproducible way is crucuial to determine the disease severity and evaluate the efficacy of treatment. 
combination of excellent spatial, contrast, and temporal resolution providing high quality images of heart throughout cardiac cycle, enables truly volumetric 
quantification and regional functional analysis. 
velocity encoded MRI techniques (velocity mapping) allow assessment of flow profiles through cardiac valves and analysis of myocardial motion patterns
MR myocardial tagging techniques offer unique information about myocardial wall deformation and the mechanisms of myocardial contraction
the heart can be considered as a highly sophisticated muscle, conceived to be the central circulatory pump
the main component of the ventricles is a thick-walled myocardium surrounding the ventricular cavities
myofiber shortening of 10-15% results in ejection of approximately 70% of ventricular blood. 
anatomically, the direction of fiber bundles is highly variable. while midwall fibers in LV wall have circumferential course, fiber orientation progressively
becomes oblique toward endo and epicardium, but directed in opposite direction (Streeter 1969, Greenbaum 1981), as consequence epi and endocardial oblique fibers
are almost perpendicularly oriented toward each other. 
early detection of ischemia (Brecker, 2000) - since subendocardium is particularly sensitive to myocardial ischemia, long-axis function, largely reflecting 
subendocardial function may be a useful parameter
in several disease states such as myocardial ischemia or infarction, synchronization of events and regional nonuniformity may be disrupted (Rademakers 2001)
post-systolic contraction is a well known phenomenon in ischemically diseased myocardium, use of multiple timepoints during cardiac cycles from second half of 
systole to end of isovolumnic relaxation enables elucidation and quantification of this inhomogeneity 
assessment of global ventricular function generally includes measuring the adequacy of the ventricles to eject blood into the great vessels, usually the ventrciular
volumes at end diastole (maximum filling) and end-systole (maximum emptying) are quantified, from these two volumetric parameters, all other global functional
parameters can be deduced
global functional parameters of heart function:
EDV - ESV = SV (ml)
SV/EDV = EF (%)
SV*HR = CO (ml/min)
EDVindex = EDV/BSA (l/m^2)
ESVindex = ESV/BAS (ml/m^2)
CO/BSA = CI (l/min/m^2)
BSA, body surface area; CI, cardiac index; CO, cardiac output; EDV, end-diastolic volume; EF, ejection fraction; ESV, end-systolic volume; HR, heart rate; SV, stroke volume

another important parameter of global ventricular performance and an independent predictor of morbidity and mortality from coronary heart disease is the
ventricular or myocardial mass (Levy 1990). 
ventricular volumes calculated using limited number of standardized measurements of ventricular cavity (hemisphere cylinder model, biplane or single-plane ellipsoid
model) (Dulce 1993, Thiele 2002). these geometric assumptions advantage of rapidly obtaining ventricular volume and LV mass, but only reliable as long as 
the geometric model corresponds to true ventricular cavity or myocardial wall. 
however, now true volumetric quantification is feasible using MRI, 3D-echocardiography, and CT. Using simpson's rule and a stack of parallel slices encompassing
the entire ventricle, delineation of endocardial contours, and multiplying the area by the thickness of the imaging plane and summing across all planes. 
volumetric quantification more reliable, accurate, and reproducible than geometric techniques. 

real breakthrough of MRI in clinical evaluation of ventricular function coincided with introduction of fast, segmented spoiled-GE sequences in early 1990s. acquiring
multiple lines of k-space per heartbeat, short tr, low flip angle, reduced imaging time to single breath length, 
superiority of b-SSPF cine MRI convincingly shown and now the standard sequence to study cardiac function (Spuentrup 2003). 

endo/epicardial borders, endocardial traberculations, papillary muscles: precise delineation of endo- and epi-cardial ventricular borders is crucial for accurate
quantification of ventricular mass and volume. 
anatomical structures such as papillary muscles and endocardial muscular traberculations have a significant impact on ventricular volume and mass calculations
in-plane pixel size of 1-2mm in-plane, with 6-8mm through plane is achievable for good temporal resolution
real-time MRI - (Barkhausen et al 2002) - imaging is extremely fast reducing examination time and cost, increasing patient comfort
the necessity of using volumetric quantification techniques such as MRI to quantify LV volume is even more important because of its complext geometry (Markiewicz 1987)
	value of echocardiography and other geometric based techniques is limited

assessment of ventricular stroke volume with phase-shift MRI: an alternative technique to quantify ventricular function is assessment of forward flow or (stroke) 
volumes in the ascending aorta or pulmonary artery with velocity-encoded cine or phase MR imaging (velocity mapping, Kondo et al 1991). however, velocity encoded
cine provides no information about absolute ventricular volume or ejection fraction. ratio of pulmonary artery stroke volume to aorta stroke volume an indicator of
shunt severity and a cutoff of 1.5 used to determine surgical intervention (Powell et al 2003). 

variability of measurements: overall variability should be assessed to define confidence limits for individual measurements before real changes within a subject
over time can be detected. variance component analysis provides a measure of total variability of repeated MRI measurements, taking into account relative contributions
of interstudy, interobserver, and intraobserver error. Pattynama 1993 showed for LV mass calculations a 16% change is necessary to be sure it is a real change in LV mass.
observer subjectivity also a limiting factor. 
compared with echocardiography using geometric models to quantify LV volumes and mass, breath hold CINE MRI with volumetric ventricular quantification has much
higher reproducibility, thus requiring smaller sample sizes to detect changes in volume, mass, and function (Grothues, 2004) 
Bellenger et al 2000 -> 90% reduction in sample size, from 121 to 12 subjects to estimate edv

comparison with other cardiac imaging techniques: MRI vs contrast ventriculography, radionuclide imaging, or thermodilution techniques. results are not interchangeable,
echocardiography overestimates LV EF and shows poor agreement with other techniques (Bellenger 2000). MRI agrees with gated PET and SPECT (Rajappan 2002), 

Regional ventricular function: assessment of contribution of different parts of ventricular wall to global ventricular performance is important in many cardiac
diseases. 
clinically used parameters to express regional ventricular function: myocardial wall thickness, systolic wall thickening, circumferential and longitudinal wall
motion or shortening. myocardial thickness can be measured on long and short axis MRI images. epicardial and endocardial contours can be used to define wall thickness
different grades of wall motion are also used: normokinesis (decreased wall motion), akinesis (absent wall motion), dyskinesis (wall motion in opposite direction),
and hyperkinesis (increased wall motion). 

myocardial wall deformation, myocardial tagging, and strain analysis: during the cardiac cycle, the heart transforms in a very complex pattern. accurate myocardial
deformation analysis became possible with introduction of MRI myocardial tagging (zerhouni et al 1988) - to give 2d and 3d regional information about shape and 
dimensions of heart cavities and its walls at different timepoints throughout the cardiac cycle, enabling calculation of strains (normal/shear), regional function,
and shape. tags are truly non-invasive myocardial markers. 

myocardial wall velocity mapping - with the advent of tissue doppler imaging, enabling quanitfication of myocardial velocities, it became evident that assessment of
myocardial velocity patterns is important in many cardiac diseases. 

Diastolic function - heart failure caused by a predominant abnormality in diastolic function (diastolic heart failure) is considered responsible for about 1/3 of
all patients with congestive heart failure (paelinck, 2002). however, diagnosis of diastolic dysfunction and diastolic heart failure still challenging due to
controversy surrounding definition of diastolic dysfunction and criteria for diastolic heart failure. diastolic dysfunction refers to a condition in which 
abnormalities in mechanical function are present during diastole, can appear in presence or absence of a clinical syndrome of heart failure, and with normal or
abnormal systolic function. 

diastole represents the filling phase of the ventricles, the period between mitral valve opening and closing. (134 sur 564)


























