comparing GABA dependent physiological measures of inhibition with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of GABA using ultra-high field MRI
abstract: imbalances in glutamatergic (excitatory) and gabaergic (inhibitory) signaling within key brain networks are though to underlie
many brain and mental health disorders, and for this reason there is considerable interest in investigating how individual variations in 
localised concentrations of these molecules relate to brain disorders. MRS provides a reliable means of measuring these concentrations 
in vivo, which can then be correlated with brain function and dysfunction. an issue of much debate is whether the GABA observed and 
measured using MRS represents the entire pool of GABA available for measurement, or is instead limited to only some portion of it. GABA 
function can also be measured non-invasively in humans through the use of TMS techniques that can be used to measure cortical excitability
and GABA mediated physiological inhibition. to investigate this issue further they collected in a single session both types of measurement
ie TMS measures of cortical excitability and physiological inhibition and ultra-high field MRS measures of GABA, glutamine, and glutamate
from the left sensorimotor cortex of the same group of right handed subjects. they find TMS and MRS measures are largely uncorrelated
with each other, save for the plateau of the TMS IO curve that was negatively correlated with MRS-Glutamate (Glu), and intra-cortical
facilitation that was positively associated with MRS glutamate concentration. these findings are consistent with the view that GABA 
concentrations measured using MRS largely represent pools of GABA that are linked to tonic rather than phasic inhibition and thus contribute
to the inhibitory tone of a brain area rather than GABAergic synaptic transmission. 
introduction: gaba is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, present in 20-50% of synapses, and has a critical role of
regulating excitability throughout the brain. dysfunction in gaba signaling is also core to many neurological and psychiatric conditions,
including developmental disorders such as tourette and autism. post-mortem investigations of tourette syndrome patients have shown that
there are substantial decreases (<50%) in the number of inhibitory interneurons in the striatum, and PET studies have demonstrated 
widespread alterations in GABAa receptor binding throughout the brain in TS, including in the striatum, thalamus, and insula cortex. most
importantly, with respect to the focus of the current study TMS studies of physiological inhibition have repeatedly demonstrated reduced short
interval intra-cortical inhibition (SICI) in TS, and as SICI is thought to be predominantly dependent on GABA-A receptor activity these 
findings have suggested a role of dysfunctional GABAergic signaling in TS. 
non-invasive in-vivo investigation of localised gaba concentration within the brain is possible using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy
(MRS). detection of some neurometabolites such as 1H MRS can be challenging due to low concentration and signal overlap with more 
concentrated metabolites. ultra-high field offers the possibility of increased spectral resolution and SNR, compared to lower field 
strengths. in the context of the current study, it is of interest to note that MRS studies of GABA concentration within the cortical motor
areas in TS have reported either no differences in GABA concentration or increased levels of GABA relative to age-matched controls. 
the findings outlined above in relation to TS illustrate an apparent contradiction, specifically while multiple TMS studies have demonstrated
that GABA-A mediated physiological inhibition is substantially reduced in TS, recent MRS studies have reported either no difference in GABA
concentration, or increased GABA concentrations within the SMA that are associated with decreased gain in motor cortical excitability, a
finding that has been widely reported in TS. however, these are only contradictor if we assume that GABA-mediated inhibition as measured 
through TMS is the same as GABA concentrations as measured through MRS. it is widely accepted that TMS measures of GABA mediated physiological
inhibition such as SICI are likely to be indexing the operation of low-threshold, transiently activated, cortical GABA interneurons. 
in particular, pharmacological studies suggest that SICI measured using inter-stimulus intervals (ISI) of 1.5-5ms are largely dependent on 
GABA-A receptor activity. by contrast, it has been argued that the GABA observed and measured using MRS largely represents extracellular 
concentrations of GABA that are linked to the 'tonic' GABA-ergic inhibitory tone of a localised brain region. if this is inded the case,
than it would be unsurprising that decreased transient 'phasic' inhibition and increased 'tonic' inhibition could be observed within a 
particular patient group, particularly if the latter can be viewed as the consequence of an adaptive compensatory response to the former, as
has been argued. 	
two recent studies sought to address this issue directly, by investigating the relationship between TMS measurements of SICI and MRS 
measurements of GABA within primary somatosensory cortex collected from the same individuals. both studies acquired MRS data at conventional
field strengths and one study investigated GABA concentrations using a GABA-edited sequence (MEGA-PRESS). the results of these studies are
inconclusive. Stagg et al reported that MRS GABA concentrations in the PMC were uncorrelated with 2.5ms SICI measurements, but significantly
correlated with the slope of the 1ms SICI curve. the physiological mechanisms underlying 1ms SICI effects are thought to be distinct from 
those occuring at later ISIs, and although these mechanisms are not fully understood, it has been suggested that the effects may reflect 
axonal refractory periods. Stagg also suggests that MRS measures extra-synaptic, tonic inhibition and that GABA that may be associated to the
duration of the refractory periods of neuronal axons. 
Tremblay et al also reported that MRS-GABA concentrations within PMC were uncorrelated with any TMS measurements, including 3ms SICI, but 
they did not measure 1ms SICI. 
the stagg and tremblay studies also differ in the associations that they reported for TMS/MRS metabolite pairings, partially due to the use
of different TMS measurements. Stagg reported that a general measure of cortical excitability (the slope of the TMS recruitment (IO) curve)
was significantly associated with glutamate concentrations within the PMC, tremblay reported a significant positive correlation between 
Glx (a composite measure of glutamate and glutamine) and the duration of the cortical silent period (CSP). 
furthermore, in addition to differing on which particular TMS measure to relate to MRS measures of cortical excitability and physiological
inhibition, the above studies also differ in that one used a GABA-edited MRS sequence, and the other did not, which may have important
implications for the measurements obtained, particularly as both studies were conducted at conventional field strengths. 
the advantages of high field (7T) are the greater chemical shift dispersion and increased SNR, which improves the detection sensitivity and
efficiency of metabolites, especially those with low concentration such as GABA. greater chemical shift dispersion increases the separation
of signals with similar resonance frequencies, allowing a more accurate identification and quantification of each metabolite. for instance,
due to spectral overlapping the differentiation of GABA, Glu, and Gln signals are difficult in H1 spectra at field strengths of 3T or less,
and Glx is reported instead. by contrast, GABA, Glu, and Gln become separable at field strengths of 7T and above. also, gaba-edited 
(j-difference editing) sequences rely on subtraction to remove overlapping signals from the spectrum, this technique is therefore particularly
susceptible to motion-related errors that are less of an issue for non-edited MRS sequences that can be utlized at 7T. 
in the current study, they investigate this question by comparing a wide range of TMS measurements of motor cortical excitability including
TMS recruitment curves and paired pulse measures of intra-cortical facilitation and physiological inhibition with MRS measures of GABA, glu,
and gln acquired at ultra-high field 7t using a non-edited STEAM sequence. 
subjects: 29 healthy right handed adults (19-27 participated in the study, all participants were free from neurological or psychological 
illness, and any contraindciations for MRI or TMS. of the 29 participants, two were excluded one due to poor quality TMS and one due to 
poor quality MRS.
MR acquisition: 7t philips achieva system, 32 channel RF coil at the university of nottingham. foam pads inserted between the participants
head and the coil to minimize and control head movement and a pair of prism glasses to allow the participants to view a screen outside
the magnet bore. 
at the start of each imaging session, 1H image localiser and B0 maps were acquired, followed by BOLD FMRI T2* weighted images which were 
acquired to guide placement of the left primary motor cortex spectroscopy voxel in the MRS scan. eight blocks of bimanual finger to thumb
opposition tapping were acquired in a blocked-trial paradigm. T1 weighted anatomical images were then acquired with an MPRAGE sequence
for tissue segmentation. 
in-vivo H1-MRS data were acquired from a voxel of interest placed over the hand area in the left M1, using a STEAM sequence, 
(TE/TM/TR=17/17/2000ms), sample size = 4096, spectral bandwidth=4000hz, phase cycle= 8, 288 averages, 9.6min. water suppression was performed
using multiply optimised insensitive suppression train (MOIST). prior to this, a non-suppressed water reference spectrum from the same VOI 
was acquired for eddy current correction and quantification. B0 shimming of the VOI was performed automatically by the philips pencil beam
algorithm, in order to increase B0 field homogeneity. 

test-retest reliability and reproducibility of MRS measurements: the test-retest reliability of the MRS data was examined. an additional
dataset was obtained from a sub-set of participants selected randomly from the original sample. this was collected on the same day,
approximately 3h after the original data set collection. the ICC of GABA/tCr was 0.62, of Glu/tCr was 0.61, and Gln/tCr was 0.44. 

TMS measuring and EEG recording: on average, the time between the TMS and the MRI measurement was 30 minutes.a figure 8 magnetic coil was
held tangentially to the scalp, and positioned 45deg from the midline resulting in posterior-anterior current flow. neuronavigation software
was used in conjunction with T1-weighted anatomical images to aid coil placement. all TMS measures were obtained from the motor hot spot
identified for the first dorsal interosseus muscle, defined as the location that yielding the largest MEP amplitudes for the FDI. 
Motor evoked potentials were recorded using disposable Ag-AgCl electrodes attached to the right FDI muscle in a belly-tendon montage. the 
signals were amplified and bandpass filtered, 10Hz-2Khz, and digitized using brainamp ExG. intra-cortical inhibition and facilitation were
investigated using a range of TMS paired pulse protocols, with a range of ISIs including 1,3,10, and 12ms. a 100ms ISI was also measured,
all paired pulse measures and unconditioned trials were randomized and presented within the same session. 
threshold determination: resting motor threshold (RMT) was determined as the lowest intensity needed to yield an MEP with peak to peak 
amplitude of >50uv in the relaxed FDI muscle with a minimum of 5-10 trials. a 1mV threshold was also determined by calculating the lowest 
intensity needed to evoke an MEP of 1mV in 5 of 10 consecutive trials. 
input output curves: TMS intensities at 100,110,120,130,140,and 150% of RMT were used, 10 pulses at each of the 6 intensities were delivered
in a randomized order. 
unconditioned trials: a total of 30 unconditioned trials were measured at SI 1mV. 
short interval intracortical inhibition: SICI was measured using 1 and 3ms ISI. the selection of conditioning stimuli CS intensities was
informed by a pilot study which revealed 1ms SICI to have a lower threshold than that of 3ms SICI. this confirms previous research, and
therefore CS intensities of 45,50,55,60% RMT were used to measure 1ms SICI whereas 60,65,70,and 75% RMT were used to measure 3ms SICI. each
CS was followed by a suprathreshold test stimulus (TS) of SI 1mV, delivered to the same location. ten trials were measured for each CS-TS 
pairing for both 1 and 3ms ISIs. 
long interval intra-cortical inhibition: a single ISI of 100ms was tested using a suprathreshold CS of 110%RMT and a TS delivered at SI 1mv.
a total of 20 trials were measured. 
intracortical faciliation: 10 and 12 ms ISIs were measured using a CS at 75%RMT followed by a SI 1mV TS. 20 trials were measured for each ISI
results: 
analysis of MRS data: in-vivo h1 spectra were fitted and modeled using LCModel software package. the basis set used for quantification 
included an experimentall acquired macromolecule spectrum, and a model spectrum of 20 metabolites. the LCModel analysis was performed within
the chemical shift range of 0.5-4.2ppm. water scaling was performed using the non-suppressed water reference. the LCModel control parameters
were based on previously published parameters, the absolute concentration for each cerebral metabolite is reported in institutional units. 
metabolites with cramer-rao lower bound >30% were rejected from further analysis. mean +/- SD CRLB for Glu was 2% +/- 0%, for Gln
6.98+/-2.76%, and for GABA 9.9+/-4.4%. the line width of the in-vivo spectra were 10.35 +/- 1.99Hz. Total Cr was used as the internal
reference for quantification due to its relatively high and stable concentration in the human brain. the group mean in-vivo spectrum 
acquired from the VOI is presented.
analysis of TMS data: all trials were visually inspected, and trials where there was evidence of pre-contraction of FDI were removed. for the
remaining data, peak-peak amplitudes were computed using in-house software. when analyzing individual participant data, median values were
calculated to indicate average MEP amplitude in response to a particular stimulator output. the mean of median values was calculated across
participants for each dependent variable, any significant outliers in group mean values were identified and removed prior to analysis using
Grubbs test. 
resting motor thresholds (RMT): the group mean RMT was 45.7 +/- 6 of maximum stimulator output. the group mean for the 1mV threshold, ie the
lowest threshold needed to evoke an MEP of 1mV in 5/10 consecutive trials was 55.3%. the group mean MEP amplitude for a TMS pulse delivered
at SI 1mV was 1365.3 mV. 
TMS recruitment (IO) curves: single pulse TMS IO curves were by calculating for each individual the median MEP amplitude for each given
TMS intensity (100-150% RMT). four parameter sigmoidal fits were then applied to the resulting values, and the maximal slope and plateau of
the curve were calculated. the sigmoidal function used to fit curves to the individual datasets was: 
MEPs = y0 + MEPmax/(1+10^(S50-S)*k), MEPmax is the maximum MEP measured, S50 is the TMS intensity need to produce 50% of the maximum MEP, 
k is the gradient of the maximum steepness of the curve and y0 is the minimal MEP response, which was set to 0. group IO curve data are 
shown, indicating that increased TMS stimulator intensity let to increased MEP amplitudes. this was confirmed by statistical analysis using
a one-way ANOVA, which yielded a significant effect of stimulator intensity. two measures of interest were taken from the sigmoid curve, the
maximum slope of the curve and the plateau of the sigmoid. 
paired pulse data: paired pulse trials were analyzed by calculating for each individual the median MEP amplitude for each CS intensity at 
each ISI. these values were then divided by the median MEP amplitude for unconditioned trials to create a ratio measure. linear slopes were
fitted to 1ms and 3ms SICI measures, and a median value was calculated across the different CS intensities to yield the average level of 
inhibition. individual median MEP values were also calculated for ICF trials. this shows that SICI paired pulse trials led to a large 
reduction of the MEP produced by the test stimulus, the ICF trials led to a large increase in the MEP to the test stimulus. these data are
consistent with the inhibitory and excitatory effects of SICI and ICF paired pulse TMS stimulation. statistical analysis using a one-way 
ANOVA revealed that a significant effect of stimulator intensity on MEP amplitudes for both the 1ms SICI curve and 3ms SICI curve. paired
sample t-tests confirmed that the values for both 10ms ICF trials and 12ms ICF trials differed significantly from unconditioned trials. 
following initial analysis, it was determined that data from LICI trials would not be analysed further. this was based on the large 
percentage of participants who exhibited floor levels for this measure, ie a complete inhibition in the MEP for 8/27 participants. while 
this indicates that the LICI paired pulse TMS procedure was highly effective, it reduces individual variability in the LICI values, and
therefore makes the correlation analysis less effective. 

correlations between MRS and TMS measures: the key objective of this study was the examine the association between TMS measures of 
physiological inhibition (assessed by TMS stimulation of the hand area of the primary motor cortex of the left hemisphere) - with MRS 
measures of GABA concentration, acquired from a voxel centered over the hand area of the PMC of the left hemisphere. to examine this 
association, pearson correlation coefficients were calculated for the entire set of TMS measurements against a measure of PMC gaba conc.
for completeness, correlations are reported without correction for multiple comparisons, where coefficients are statistically significant,
the adjusted statistical threshold (alpha) is calculated for multiple comparisons using the Holm-Bonferroni method for each NT separately. 
the TMS measurements used in the analysis consist of the following ten measurements for each individual: the resting motor threshold, 
(RMT 50-100uV), the median MEP for a single, unconditioned TMS stimulus delivered at that individual's RMT (med MEP), the stimulator output
(%) required to produce an MEP of approximately 1mV (SI 1mV), the linear slope of the TMS IO curve (IO curve), the median inhibition value
(%) observed for 1ms SICI trials (1ms SICI), the linear slope value for 1ms SICI trials (1ms SICI slope) the median inhibition value (%)
observed for 3ms SICI trials (3ms SICI), the linear slope value for 3m SICI trials (3ms SICI slope), the median value (%) observed for 10ms
ICF trials (10ms ICF) and the median value (%) observed for 12ms ICF trials (12ms ICF). 
the ratio of GABA to total creatine was used as the measure of GABA concentration. for completeness, and to maintain comparability with 
previous studies including their own, they also investigated the ratio of GABA to NAA, which yielded similar results to the tCr ratio data
and are not included here. in addition, while the primary focus was to examine the association between TMS measures of physiological 
inhibition and MRS measures of GABA, they also report the relationship of their TMS measures with MRS measures of glutamate (Glu), 
Glutamine (Gln), and the ratio of glutamine to glutamate. 

association of TMS measures with GABA: 
GABA/tCr: all effects failed to reach conventional levels of statistical significance (p<0.29). 
association of TMS measures with glutamate: 
there was a significant negative relationship between the IO plateau and Glu/tCr, r=-0.74, p<0.0001, but not for IO or RMT. a significant
positive relationship was found between Glu/tCr and 10ms ICF, however this did not survive Holm-Bonferroni correction. 
association of TMS measures with glutamine: 
Gln/tCr: no significant correlations were found. 

multiple regression analysis: multiple regression analysis confirmed that the magnitude of the median MEP obtained at RMT was predicted by
a combination of the Gln/Glu ratio and GABA/Glu ratio. the model also revealed that 10ms ICF was predicted by Glu/tCR ratio, and in addition
to this Glu/tCR was found to significantly predict IO plateau. 

Bayesian statistics: to overcome the limitations of conventional correlational analysis, a bayesian hypothesis test was conducted. this was
used primarily to evaluate if there was evidence in favor of the null hypothesis, ie, that a metabolite bore no relationship with NT function
as assessed with TMS, and further allowed to quantify the strength of the relationships found. Bayes factors were calculated, bayes factors
above 1 show support for H1 whilst below 1 show support for H0. the bayesian hypothesis test showed that there was decisive evidence that
Glu/tCr is related to IO plateau, and substantial evidence that ICF 10ms is related to Glu/tCr. 

discussion: imbalances in glutamatergic (excitatory) and GABA (inhibitory) signaling within key brain networks are thought to underlie many
brain disorders including schizophrenia, depression, chronic pain, and TS, and for this reason there is considerable interest in using MRS
to measure in-vivo concentrations of brain molecules that can be correlated with brain function and dysfunction. while it is tempting to
equate the GABA measured using MRS with NT function and with physiological or behavioral inhibition, it is important to note that any moment
in time only a fraction of MRS-GABA will be neurotransmitter, and increased MRS-GABA concentrations do not necessarily mean there is 
increased physiological or behavioral inhibition. furthermore, it is currently unclear whether MRS-GABA represents the entire pool of GABA
available for measurement (metabolic, intracellular, and extracellular), or instead as some have argued, represents extracellular, 
extrasynaptic GABA that is unrelated to the synaptic transmission of GABA. 
In the current study they compared directly, in the same individuals, MRS-GABA measured in a voxel located in the sensorimotor cortex with
TMS measures of cortical excitability and GABA-mediated physiological inhibition measured from the hand area of the primary motor cortex. 
using these techniques, they obtained high quality MRS data and replicated each of the previously reported TMS effects ie TMS recruitment
curves, 1ms SICI and 3ms SICI curves, and 10/12 ms ICF effects. the main results of the study are summarized below:
1) individual measures of MRS-GABA were unrelated to any TMS measurements, including general cortical excitability (ie TMS recruitment slopes)
GABA mediated physiological inhibition (ie 1/3ms SICI).
2) individual levels of MRS glutamate (Glu) were significantly negatively correlated with the plateau of the IO curve, a measure which is 
thought to reflect the balance of excitatory and inhibitory components of the corticospinal volley. the relationship suggests that as levels
of MRS-Glu increase the maximum MEP amplitude predicted by the model reduces. multiple regression analysis revealed Glu/tCR to be the only
significant predictor of this measure. 
3) MRS-Glu was found to be marginally correlated with 10ms but not 12 ms ICF. the multiple regression analysis confirmed that Glu/tCr was a 
significant predictor of 10 but not 12ms ICF. 
4) there was some evidence of correlation between glutamine (Gln) concentrations and median amplitude of the MEP response to TMS stimulation
delivered at the RMT. 

MRS-GABA and physiological inhibition: the findings, that individual levels of MRS-GABA are unrelated to GABA mediated physiological
inhibition, as measured by 3ms SICI replicates previous reports for 3 and 2.5ms SICI. the physiological mechanisms that underpin both 2.5 and
3ms SICI effects are well established, and thought to primarily involve post-synaptic inhibition mediated through GABA-A receptors. although
SICI has been found to be modulated by neurotransmitters such as dopamine, the contribution that such transmitters make to GABAergic
neurotransmission is complex and beyond the scope of this article. the primary source of MRS-GABA is unlikely to be the same as that 
associated to GABAergic synaptic inhibition, but instead most likely relates to concentrations of metabolic GABA and levels of ambient
extracellular GABA that contribute to tonic GABAergic activity and therefore to the GABAergic tone of a brain region. 
in a previous study, stagg and colleagues reported a significant correlation between MRS-GABA concentrations and 1ms SICI slopes. it is
important to note that the underlying physiological mechanisms for the 1ms SICI effects are thought to be different from those associated
with longer ISIs such as 3ms SICI effects, however the exact mechanisms underlying 1ms SICI are unclear. some have proposed that the effects
may relate to the refractor periods of inter-neurons, whereas others have argued that synaptic mechanisms play a role. 
MRS-glutamate and glutamine and cortical excitability: 
TMS recruitment curves are thought to reflect cortical excitability and the strength of cortico-spinal projections. however, different 
physiological processes may contribute to the TMS recruitment curve across the different stimulator intensities used, and various NTs and
neuromodulators including GABA and glutamate may contribute the the effects observed. furthermore, different aspects of the recruitment
curve may relate to different mechanisms. it may be that measures of the slope of the curve are distinct to measures of the plateau. 
prior literature describes that the maximum plateau of a recruitment curve does not simply reflect the maximum output of the corticospinal 
system, but may instead reflect the intrinsic balance of excitation and inhibition in the PMC. 

finally they demonstrate that individual MEP amplitudes were predicted by a linear combination of the ratios of glutamine/glutamate and
GABA/glutamate. glutamate exists in several metabolic pools in the brain, and these pools serve as the source of glutamate for 
neurotransmission. glutamate removed from the synaptic cleft is converted to glutamine within astrocytes, and astrocyte derived glutamine is
then used as a precursor for the synthesis of GABA within neurons, this process is highly dynamic and thought to account for 80% of cerebral
glucose consumption. for this reason, it is likely that tms changes in cortical excitability may be indexed by subtle changes in the balance
between glutamate and glutamine. 
the findings presented here are consistent with the view that GABA concentrations measured using MRS largely represent pools of extracellular
gaba that are linked to tonic rather than phasic inhibition and thus contribute to the inhibitory tone of a brain area rather than GABAergic
synaptic transmission. 






























