how does a confocal microscope work? 
fluorescence: what is fluorescence? if you shine light on some molecules, you may see light of a different color emitted from those
molecules, this is known as fluorescence. the molecules absorb high energy light (blue, for example) which increases their energy.
some of this energy is lost internally, and the molecule then releases a photon with less energy (green for example). the color of
light emitted is material dependent, and likewise, the excitation light wavelength depends on the material. the advantage of 
fluorescence is that you can attach specific fluorescent dye molecules to your sample, to selectively image different parts of
the sample. you can also use more than one type of dye, so by changing the excitation light you can change the part of the sample
that is being imaged.
how does a fluorescence microscope work? a dichromatic mirror is used, which allows light of a certain wavelength to pass, and 
stops shorter wavelength light (reflects it). epi-fluorescence uses the microscope objective to illuminate the sample, rather than
illuminating it from the other side, which would be trans-fluorescence. 
what does this have to do with confocal microscopy? 
imagine there are some lenses inside a microscope that focus light from the focal point of one lens to another focal point. 
normally the sample is completely illuminated by the excitation light, so all of the sample is fluorescing at the same time. of 
course, the highest intensity of the excitation light is at the focal point of the lens, but nonetheless other points of the sample
do get some light and they do fluoresce, which contributes to the background haze in the resulting image. adding a pinhole/screen
combination solves this problem. because the focal point of the objective lens of the microscope forms an image where the pinhole
is, these two points are known as conjugate points (or alternatively, the sample plane and the pinhole/screen are conjugate planes)
the pinhole is conjugate to the focal point of the lens, thus it is a confocal pinhole. 
how does a confocal microscope work?
put all the ingredients together: a laser is used to provide the excitation light (in order to get very high intensities). the 
laser light (blue) reflects off a dichroic mirror, from there, the laser hits two mirrors which are mounted on motors: these 
mirrors scan the laser across the sample. dye in the sample fluoresces, and the emitted light (green) gets descanned by the same
mirrors that are used to scan the excitation light (blue) from the laser. the emitted light passes through the dichroic and is
focused onto the pinhole. the light that passes through the pinhole is measured by a detector ie a photomultiplier tube. 
there is never a complete image of the sample at any given instant, only one point on the sample is observed. the detector is 
attached to a computer which builds up the image one pixel at a time, in practice this can be done 3 times a second for a 512x512
image. the limitation is in the scanning mirrors. 
what is the advantage of using a confocal microscope? the microscope is efficient at rejecting out of focus fluorescent light, the
practical effect is that the image comes from a thin sample of the tissue. by scanning many thin sections through the sample, a 
clean 3d image of the sample can be built up. 