correlations look like shit - tons of noise, and really low correlations. wtf is going on? 
need to re-do the pipeline one step at a time.
could be a couple problems - 1) the way you remove noise/perform the cross-correlations
	2) the way you calculate time-frequency decomposition (though i doubt it) 
	3) the MNE instead of the beamformer

the coupling actually looks alright, its just that the correlations are quite low

check coupling between EEG electrodes and FMRI components (64 electrodes only)  - find out if its something happening at the source
localization level, the BOLD level, whatever. maybe you can get better coupling by changing some parameters with the window size,
ersp denoising, etc. use this to optimize your coupling and then re-do the sources.

also, next time you try different methods of source localization, make sure you check the gamma map on 3 components instead of mean

ttests - convert mean inter-subject correlation maps to tmaps. 

converting to t-test: load each scan separately, or average all and then concatenate?  (run 3x) 
run the t-test loop four times, and then concatenate at the end using afni. 
you want the following: stimulus specific t-tests (across subjects) - show t-values in each voxel for all stimulus types. 
subject specific t-tests (across stimulus types) - show t values in each voxel for all subjects

tonight get the coupling for clean scalp-level data, show kernels, time course at different frequencies
	-> this is motivation for voxel-based coupling. 
		need to show quantitatively that coupling is different - how? time-lag (1), strength (2) 
	-> you need one more thing to quantify this - the ROI based approach - 
	-> difference in coupling strength as a function of time? 

the main message is that coupling changes across state, and brain area. 
the following conclusions 1) the canonical HRF may not serve as well in different states/areas - assumes alot

by the time you leave tonight: have the voxel-wise t-stats for both HRF, and xcorrs.