current practice in the use of mega-press spectroscopy for the detection of GABA. 
this report will provide a summary of the current state of the art for detecting GABA using mega press at 3t, and a basic guide to help
researchers new to the field.
introduction: mrs provides a non-invasive technique to measure neurometabolites in-vivo. gaba has been in particular difficult to measure
reliably, due to spectral overlap of the main gaba peaks with other metabolites such as creatine. high field short echo time applications
provide one solution to the problem, another is the use of edit proton MRS to detect gaba. 

mega-press: Meshcer Garwood point-resolved spectroscopy. allows gaba signals to be separated from the stronger overlying signals of other
metabolites by taking advantage of known couplings within the gaba molecule. scalar coupling is an interaction between different protons
within a molecule, which takes place through the bonding electron network, altering the appearance of the spectrum and time-evolution
of spins during the experiment. in the context of MEGA-PRESS, applying an RF pulse to one coupled spin can modify the time-evolution of a
coupled partner, and therefore the appearance of the corresponding peak in the spectrum. 
the difference edited technique mega press involves the collection of two interleaved datasets which differ in their treatment of the gaba
spin system. in one dataset, an editing pulse is applied to GABA spins at 1.9ppm, in order to selectively refocus the evolution of 
j-coupling to the gaba spins at 3ppm. in the other, the inversion pulse is applied elsewhere, so that the j-coupling evolves freely 
throughout the echo time. the majority of peaks in the spectrum are unaffected by the editing pulse, so subtraction of the refocused ON from
the un-refocused OFF removes all these peaks from the spectrum, and retains only those peaks that are affected by the editing pulses. 

acquisition: differences in implementation across systems originate largely from differences in timing, slice profile, and bandwidth of 
slice-selective pulses used in the base PRESS experiment, and differences in the timing and bandwidth of the editing pulses. 