deep work

you scorn the concept, but its actually quite an interesting idea.
you are obsessive-compulsive about your phone and youtube. checking it every 5 minutes or less, and watching 1hr+ of youtube videos per day.
you need to put an end to this type of behavior because it is cutting your productivity by 25-50%. 

if you eliminate all distractions, you will have no choice but to accomplish the tasks that need doing. 

set a time each day to check facebook, emails, etc. you may be late on a few responses, but that has never affected you negatively and it probably
never will. if it does, you can be certain that the negative effects of being late on a single text or email will be far outweighed by the gains in
time saved over a longer duration.

do the following: check your email/facebook once when you get to work, and ever 2 hours after that. 
so if you get to work at 9am, you will check at: 9am, 11am, 1pm, 3pm, 5pm, and 7pm. (6 times per day, max 5 minutes per check = 30 minutes per day). 
cut down email/facebook to 30 minutes per day, and work undistracted for the rest of the time. 

eliminate all retrospective "work" ie work which isn't work but just consists of going over previous work that you have accomplished and patting yourself on the back
go back to the diablo speed run concept - focus only on those things which will lead to the fast possible advancement and give the highest ROI. 
right now, thats releasing your next app/landing page, and publishing your next paper. 

alongside this, eliminate all spurious actions like scratching/picking ears, nose, around lips and mouth, scratching head, etc. these feed into your other compulsive
behaviors, when you are high on one, you are high on another, they are correlated. 
reduce the amount of coffee you drink as well, no more than one pot per day, and drink it quickly in the morning. get a larger mug that can accomodate it all. 

the bottom line is, you want to leave work each day feeling good about how much you accomplished, and knowing you lived up to your potential. anything less than
that is a fail. 
