denoising_paper - with future subjects, or with current subjects - 

more ways to improve the denoising: right now, its the best its ever been - but how to improve it further?
use all electrodes for the mean difference comparison? 
use a smaller/larger window size for the subtraction window?
use a smaller increment for the advance window? (doesn't seem to help) 
use more/less averages for the subtraction? (less seems more optimal, around 20)

try a comparison to the outside scanner data - 

is there a way to combine reconstructed time series from two different ICA filtering approaches? 
IE, filter in low, reconstruct time series, and filter in high, and reconstruct time series based on that? 

serotonin dominance hierarchy

steps to dominance:
1) denoise the data completely - remove gradient, BCG, and all else using ICA. back-project non-noise alpha components
	display all components from a single subject - power spectrum and topoplot - remove based on power spectrum and topoplot
	sort with "good" and "bad" component labels (bcg power spectrum, etc). 

2) compute head model and sources in brainstorm, spontaneous source localization and MNE 

more gamma during head motion due to poor artifact subtraction?

removing residuals using min-differences post sliding average subtraction? seems like it could help in some cases, to remove 
the extra peaks left over after the sliding average (which doesn't work well in instances where there's rapid head motion or start/stop
scan effects?

building up the average artifact from the top x artifacts? (fitting an artifact based on other artifacts?) 


problem: low frequencies get subtracted out too much, high frequencies don't get subtracted out enough.
how to address this issue with average artifact subtraction? essentially, average artifact subtraction is imperfect because of the
frequency specific response to averaging, ie, averaging artifacts over a longer time stretch doesn't reduce the high frequency content
of the artifact as much, while averaging over a smaller time period reduces the low frequency artifact completely, ie, it somehow
creates a notch filtering effect in the power spectrum - you should check brainvision frequency resolution first, to make sure the
effects you're observing are not just due to your own denoising procedure (99% sure they will be in BV also). 
can you subtract the artifacts in a different space? like frequency space? 
it should be possible to completely remove the artifact...but aas is an imperfect technique obviously 

frequency specific averaging windows? ie, when subtracting from higher frequencies, use a shorter averaging window, when subtracting
from lower frequencies, use a longer averaging window? you will have to make sure you can actually perform that kind of fft filtering
on the signal, in order to make sure signals are identical when you average at different frequencies 

subtracting residual gradient artifact - mean difference across all epochs, sort and take top mean differences, subtract their mean
from signal 
spatial ICA -  to compare BCG and FMRI components? also, spatial ICA to remove noise from eeg recordings. 

testing source localized global signal vs BOLD global signal - which correlates best with which? 
check how functional connectivity and coupling are correlated within voxels? 



