diffusion weighted spin-echo FMRI at 9.4T microvasculature/tissue contribution to BOLD signal changes
the nature of the vascular contribution to BOLD contrast used in FMRI is poorly understood. vascular contributions
were investigated at an ultra high field of 9.4T, using diffusion weighted FMRI techniques in a rat forepaw stimulation
model. tissue and blood T2 times were measured to optimize the echo time for FMRI. the T2 or arterial blood was 40.8
+/- 3.4msec, similar to tissue T2 of 38.6ms. in comparison, the T2 of venous blood at an oxygenation level of 79% was
9.2 +/- 2.3ms. the optimal spin-echo time of 40msec was confirmed from echo-time dependency FMRI studies. the intravasc
contribution was examined using a graded diffusion-weighted spin-echo echo-planar imaging technique with diffusion 
weighting factor (b) values of up to 1200sec/mm. relative BOLD signal changes induced by forepaw stimulation showed no 
dependence on the strength or direction of diffusion sensitizing gradients, suggesting that the large vessel contribution
to the BOLD signal is negligible at 9.4T. however, gradient echo fmri performed with bipolar diffusion sensitizing grads
which suppresses the intravascular components from large vessels, showed higher %signal changes in the surface of the
brain. this effect was attributed to the extravascular contribution from large vessels. these findings demonstrate that
caution should be exercised when when interpreting that higher percent changes obtained with gradient echo BOLD FMRI are
related to stronger neural activation. 

introduction: the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) effect is the most widely used contrast mechanism for FMRI. 
it is sensitive to venous blood volume, and to vessel size and orientation. these vascular contributions, which depend
on magnetic field strength as well as acquisition methods, are still poorly understood. to comprehend the vascular 
contributions, the microvascular must be separated from the macrovascular components. the microvascular or tissue 
component arises from capillaries and surrounding tissues, while whereas the macrovascular component arises from large
venules and veins. it is desireable to minimize the macrovascular contribution, due to the fact that it can often be
distal from the site of neuronal activity. according to the BOLD model, vascular contributions are composed of EV and IV
effects. the EV contribution from large vessels is linearly dependent on magnetic field strength, whereas the EV 
contribution from small vessels increases quadratically with increased field strength. this suggests that higher 
magnetic fields can increase the relative contribution from microvascular components to the BOLD signal. the EV component
of microvessels contributes to both SE and GE fMRI as a result of dynamic signal averaging induced by water diffusion 
during an echo time. however, the EV component of large vessels contributes only to GE and not SE experiments due to the
refocusing pulse which nulls the effect due to static inhomogeneity around large vessels. these EV effects can not be
reduced using flow-sensitive bipolar gradients. the IV signal can be reduced using bipolar crusher gradients, such as the
ones used in diffusion weighting, because fast-moving spins dephase and lose their signal more quickly than static spins.
it is generally accepted that IV signals from large vessels are reduced at b-values of 20-30sec/mm^2. GE FMRI studies
using bipolar gradients have been done at 1.5, 3 and 4T in humans, showing that at 1.5T, most of the BOLD signal arises
from IV macrovascular effects. when the same experiment was performed at 3 and 4T, some activation remained, suggesting
that macrovascular EV and microvascular EV/IV effect coexists with a significant macrovascular IV contribution. 

conclusions: at lower field strengths, the macro-vascular effects dominate, at larger field strengths using spin-echo
FMRI it is possible to obtain EV from microvascular, as it increases quadratically with field strength whereas the EV
increases only linearly. 