easyway_stop_smoking

1) what is it doing for me?
	absolutely nothing at all - there are no advantages
2) do i actually enjoy it?
3) do i really need to go through life paying through the nose just to stick these things in my mouth and suffocate myself?

the only reasons you continue to smoke
1) marijuana addiction
2) brainwashing

the main reason smokers have a difficult time to quit is because they feel they are giving up a genuine pleasure or crutch.
it is absolutely essential to understand that you are giving up nothing whatsoever. 

the reason we carry on smoking is because even though we know it puts us at a disadvantage, we believe there is something in it that we 
actually enjoy, or that acts as some kind of prop. we feel after we stop, some things in life will never be quite the same. this is an 
illusion - the fact is, it only takes, and then gives some back to create the illusion. 
it takes only 3 weeks for 99% of the effect to leave your body

we can go 10 hours without smoking, then we instantly want more as soon as we get some
if you stop now, your body will recover and within a few weeks it will be as if you never smoked

our minds are being bombarded by propaganda about how smoking is relaxing, etc

why am i doing it?

do i really need to?

OF COURSE YOU DON'T!

no longer refer to it as giving up, but as "escaping"

when you smoke, you are forfeiting a life of: health, energy, wealth, peace of mind, confidence, courage, self-respect, freedom, happiness. 

get it clear in your head that smoking is not relieving your nerves, it is slowly and steadily destroying them. one of the great gains of
quitting is the return of your confidence and self-assurance

the combination smoker is the one where you connect it to something good or memorable
smoking does not fill a void, it creates one
they do not smoke because they enjoy it, but because they are miserable without it

the only time smoking becomes precious is when we are trying to cut back or abstain

you smoke because you think you cannot stop, not because you believe the pros outweight the cons

the effects of smoking are like the effects of getting fat - gradual and insidious, so that we don't notice
use your imagination - how will it feel when you stop smoking and regain your health and mental fitness?

although the smoker knows he is better off without smoking, he still sees quitting as a sacrifice

just one smoke. there is no such thing as just one smoke, it is a chain reaction of all or nothing

1) there is nothing to give up, only marvelous positive gains to achieve
2) never see the odd cigarette, it doesn't exist. just a lifetime of filth and disease
3) there is nothing different about you. any smoker can find it easy to stop. 

when you smoke only once every twelve hours, you begin to believe it is the most precious thing on earth. 
you are a secret smoker, the type which deserves its own separate chapter

today's smokers are generally considered to be weak people

remember - you aren't giving anything up, instead, you are about to receive marvelous positive gains

smoking is not a habit or a pleasure - it is a drug addiction and a disease

concentrate on the other side: what am i getting out of it if i smoke? answer: NOTHING

how to stop smoking: all you have to do is (the easy way)

1) make the decision that you will never smoke again
2) don't mope about it, instead, rejoice.

1) you can achieve it. the only thing that can make you smoke again, is you.
2) there is absolutely nothing to give up. there are only tremendous, positive gains to be made
3) there is no such thing as just one joint. smoking is a drug addiction and chain reaction
4) see the whole business as a drug addiction, not as some habit. you have go the disease, and ignoring it won't help.
5) go out and enjoy life immediately once you have become a non-smoker and drug free
6) 

think of weed as a tapeworm inside your stomach. if you can starve it for 3 months, it will disappear for good. it
will try to trick you into smoking again, to keep itself alive

see the pangs to smoke again as the death throes of a little monster

taking a smoke break is like wearing too-tight shoes, and then taking them off momentarily to relieve the problem.

the moment of revelation - the constant joy of never having to smoke again

you will remain a happy non-smoker provided:
1) you never doubt your decision
2) you don't wait to become a non-smoker
3) you don't try not to think about smoking
4) you don't use substitutes
5) you see all other smokers as they really are, and pity them rather than envy them








`
