basic pipeline for EEG-FMRI voxel-wise coupling

1) gradient denoise, downsample to 250Hz, export from brainvision (done for each set separately in BV recorder)
2) BCG denoise in matlab
	a) get the same artifact from all subjects (run ICA on all datasets together?), save, and then run subtraction
	b) subtraction: get channels with highest amplitude artifacts, correlate, use top indices on each artifact, subtract. 
		i) epoch length - customize for each subject - you want it to be zero around the edges, to eliminate discontinuities
		ii) subtract top 50 indices or whatever, maybe play with the indices a bit to minimize the difference between artifact
		    and template - use a scaling factor mvregress, just scale the correlated stemplate so that it matches all channels.


next step - compute the power for all stimuli in badger and mongoose, average across components and subjects, make sure the denoising 
worked. do the same for ICA with highpass at 1Hz

organize the FMRI datasets on your computer, get both mongoose and badger on your laptop. compute them separately then move them to 
a hard drive, you can run the stats on the desktop or something. 


tomorrow - check out the ISMRM submission process  - you could also submit your work at imeka as a mobile app. 

good components - check the scalp map, power spectrum, and ersp. what else? 

echo times: 16.994, 42.426, 67.857



organize all your images - mongoose and badger, eeg and fmri

today: coupling of components vs FMRI at each voxel/frequency band, or back-projected electrodes vs 
get FMRI correlation maps for visual response in both groups badger and MONG based on EEG data (denoise ICA, bandpass filter, etc)
use that to correlate BOLD with each EEG component, then later get the voxel-wise coupling. 

after cleaning all data - bandpass filter, then get correlation maps for all tasks, rename mongoose files, 
next - calculating raw power in all bands, and removing segments with large artifacts (EEG) 

correlation maps all look good - save them, and then calculate coupling in occipital voxels for all subjects and all conditions
average the two gamma maps, and the two sin/box maps for mongoose.

once you have validated the occipital lobe coupling (after removing motion artifacts), proceed to the voxel-wise coupling for both 
datasets. 
compute mong coupling for rest, and visual stimulation, then start up brainstorm and work on getting sources again. 
coupling results seem to be the same as before, possibly slightly better.

next step - get all subjects electrodes and head models in brainstorm, compute sources, and then do voxel-wise coupling	

by tonight: clean channel level data in all subjects, both protocols, head models, and sources for all subjects
	run time-frequency overnight (test on 1 subject first)

	cleaning data - running ICA on different frequency bands - 0.5-5,5-30,30-90
tuesday night: finish computing all EEG-FMRI coupling in voxel space, wednesday and thursday write abstract

2-30, 31-100

next step - plot the abs of all channels in all subjects

coupling as a function of frequency band - coupling as a function of electrode/component? a kernel in each electrode? but how to compare to the FMRI?

today: finish the scripts for voxel-wise coupling, cross-correlations, and hrf-based. 

do two outputs - cross-correlations, and HRF-based. compare time-lagged correlations with HRF-based coupling
so basically have an output at 1,2,4,s etc. 
sunday - finish the final abstract, send to kevin and other authors. 

compute voxel-wise cross-correlations, and voxel-wise coupling

display a kernel in each voxel (similar to dave's maps, but with voxels) 
	try to get that today - the voxel-wise kernel 


get the hrf coupling first, then work on cross correlations - may have to downsample all images. 
get the hrf as first result. (by 9, have figures). 


















