efficiency: business section
sell anything legal that actually works. doesn't matter how you sell (Spammy messages, cold-calling, direct traffic etc). 
avoid "churn and burn", where you constantly come up with new products to churn and burn customers. this takes more work over the 
long term, since your customers are not "sticky", and you'll be forced to incessently adapt to the next hot thing. also bad for name.

test the product: do research to ensure the product is viable. 

morals that are excuses: people who are morally opposed to legal products are excuse makers...ex diet pills vs vodka shots. 
can only sell a product you love? its foolish to avoid selling something just because you don't use it yourself. 

business monetization: a company makes money 24/7/365, and has billion dollar potential. 

choosing what to sell, and the selling process: people always start by asking "what is in demand", but this does't make sense because
pretty much everything is in demand (there are millions of companies). 
the real question is "why do people buy?". the answer: insecurity/emotion is why people click BUY. 
instead of asking what is in demand, ask "what emotion or insecurity does this target?" you have to target an innate insecurity/fear.
insecurity or emotional appeal: for you this, is forex/trading in general - people want to get rich quick. sell them a way by creating
trading systems that will give them 30-40+% yield per year. 
the app should 
use your app to funnel people to your website, where you sell them trading package indicators to use with dukascopy 
get in touch with people from dukascopy to see if you can get a cut. 
what do you sell? a high margin product in the sector of your choosing. electronic products. 
step 3: HOW do you sell? the answer, you sell online. use paid for traffic, to get the highest probability conversion at a fraction of
the cost of a brick and mortar. 
emphasize the hands-off approach
emphasize the fact that you can test it in the app (get it working on IOS as well). 

fear drives demand. 
how to generate revenue: subscription based revenue is the best, netflix makes money every month based on an ${x}/month fee. 
find a way to scrape the dukas feed to get access to signals you can sell for a subscription. 

step by step: setting up your first business:
1) buy the domain name, should match your product or what you are selling.
2) hosting-  host gator or blue host, both work fine
3) install wordpress 
4) grab a premium studo press theme
5) add an about page - explaining who you are and what your niche knowledge is
6) create one post a month, max. 
7) delete all social media (Assuming this is a consulting page). 

teddy bear example - simple case selling bears with hearts saying "shit bitch you is fine", selling 5 bears a day makes a liveable wage
need a clean emotional angle with a clean marketing strategy that is forever. ie, hit it and quit it. 

start selling: what you need is a "good" product that works, and a world class sales strategy. execution is worth significantly more
than the product. 
read the sales books outlined on page 68. 

the basics of selling and copywriting: 
the framework: stories sell. frame all of your ideas into stories. 
story: 1) - problem that your customer has 2) - how you solved it, 3) - what are the results of the solution, 4) - how is it different
after that - call to action to purchase/sign up. give the customer some information on how it works, with some science background,
and then the call to action. 
come up with a solution to the problem, explain HOW you came up with it and got results, then close with a *buy this*. 
this is the SET framework: "story, example, tell"
know the audience - selling motivation to rich people who have already made it is not going to work, because they understand the game
selling motivation to people who are lazy and easily persuaded WILL work. 

emotion sells, not logic. the key to keeping your text emotional is to keep everything more conversational (right brain functions). 
tell the customer to imagine what it would be like if they bought your product, if at a loss for ideas, go with fear of loss. 
fear of loss and pain phrases: while a lot of good sales pages come from pleasure (desire for pleasure or pain), higher conversion 
rates are typically obtained from fear/pain vs pleasure. 
keywords (search for synonyms also) - avoid, challenge, dangerous, imagine (removal of pain), last chance, last second, remove,
right now (classic), security (classic fear of loss focuses on security), survive, uncover (similar to discover). 

make the customer visualize before trying to close: 
have a free trial - customer gets to test your algorithm for two weeks - how can you make sure they don't keep it? if you're going
the dukascopy route, try to make an obfuscated code 
whiteboarding/videos - embed videos into your website, the use is very likely to click on them. 
website name - do not use hyphens, and make it as short/memorable as possible. 
	name1) incite emotion/attention (example, loosit.com, loveislame.com, etc)
	name2) use the exact name of the product offering: creditcards.com
	name3) simply state the brand name - pepsi.com 

where to focus your attention: 
2 basic strategies for begginners: 1)text, 2) taglines with "pre-approval" highlights. 

text section 1 (Customer acquisition): the first paragraph is the most valuable on the main page. should capture attention, and
connect emotionally (target pain), so they read the first paragraph. 
strategies:
1) do you find yourself doing XYZ (insert activity)
2) making the first sentence appeal to a pain point.
3) using a leader at the end such as "you'll be surprised to see the anser to this and other problems has been discovered"
4) avoid words I or my, stick with you to make a connection
5) stagger out the offering to avoid losing people who are cynical/negative, ie, you could save/earn 50, 200, 500$ to capture the
full span of attention.
YOU SHOULD SPEND AT LEAST 20X more time making sure the title and first paragraph are perfect as the majority will not go past. 

text section 2 (sales): 
testimonials (more likely to buy), case studies (how someone had issue x and used your product to solve it), 
free gifts - both before AND after purchasing the product, have a "completion bar" for when they enter their information. 
limited supply or time - create a sense of urgency

text section 3 (close)
if the price of the product is small, you can compare it to something people regularly buy
if subscription, compare it to another recurring expense and use that as a value proposition
comparisons - compare it to other products, show that yours is cheaper or better (2x, 3x, etc)
focus on lifetime value of the customer - quality over quantity, a lifetime customer brings more revenue and is also
likely to refer friends which gives you another lifetime customer. 
no distractions and assume the sale - no ads on the sale page. assume the sale - further down the sales page, you should
start throwing in phrases where you assue the sale is already made. 
use before and afters - photos if possible, if not, graphs. 
influencers the holy grail of sales: try to land a whale, or someone who has thousands/millions of followers to go to bat for you
use "join x thousand/million subscribers per month!". 
infographics and photos - create a few solid infographics for the product, keep it structured with 5-7 talking points max. have
your website/brand/logo clearly displayed on the infographic. test the infographics on a few friends who do not know the product,
see if their eyes move along it correctly. google image search for photos about your niche. 
sell faster on mobile - make sure the mobile version is very simple, less chaos the better. a small number of choices including
1) sign up 2) read content 3) buy now. 

maintenance/follow up: keeping customers and saving lost sales.
something to understand - if someone shells out 1000$ on a motivational seminar, they would have to admit they were wrong to say that
it was not worth the money. once the purchase is made, the customer will justify the expense, the more expensive the more committed.
use words such as frustration, doubt, anger, discouragement, overwhelmed, paralyzed, terrified, worried. 

create templates: use basic financial calculations that explain the benefits of your product. show how much the customer will gain
by using your product. create an interactive item, that allows them to enter personalized settings
the more interactive and personal it is, the more likely you will make an emotional connection with the customer, and more money. 
you're essentially forcing the customer to justify the purchase, and psychologically priming them to buy. 
don't leave yet popups - can help you retain lost customers. when the customer goes for the x, give them a final popup offering free
emails: include content to help drive traffic to your website. provide cold hard information. provide real, valuable tips. emails
link to a new product release, and also give content. 
re-paste to optimize google: many are familiar with email and content based marketing. place all information based emails into a 
separate "blog section" of your website. if you are providing fact based information, google will push you up the website rankings.
product review: go for product review questions first - if the numbers are high, you're in good shape. 
get reviews on the problem it solved, why they bought it. 
look for new pain points: find out if there are other issues that have not been addressed - you can create a second product for the
same customer set. if a large chunk of consumers raise problem b, it is likely worth looking into. 
stalk your competitors - pay attention to your industry only, paying attention to other sectors loses valuable time. visit their 
websites, watch their ads/social media, and track their web traffic. you'll learn many things such as if they're buying traffic or not,
and what items sell best for them. 
do not just copy your competition - you solution needs to have unique elements.
the follow up - execution is everything - just because you've sold something doesn't tell you why you've sold it. in addition, just
because the conversion rate is x%, doesn't mean that is the optimal rate. and lastly, just because one target audience is working, 
doesn't mean you've targeted correctly. 
execution is everything, this is why athletes can't teach, and the authors have no problem giving out this information  in the book.











