microvasculare BOLD contribution at 4 and 7 tesla in the human brain: gradient and spin echo FMRI with the suppression of
blood effects. 
the BOLD signal consists of both an intra and extravascular component from small and large vessels. their relative 
contributions are dependent on field strength, imaging technique, and echo time. the IV and EV contributions were investi
in human visual cortex at 4 and 7 tesla using gradient and spin echo with or without suppression of blood effects. 
spin echo acquisition suppresses EV BOLD from large veins, and reflects predominantly T2 changes and EV BOLD signal from
small vessels. at a short echo time of 32ms, diffusion gradient suppression of blood signals resulted in a 75 and 25% 
decrease in spin echo BOLD at 4 and 7 tesla respectively. however, at longer echo times (55-65ms), approximating T2 
typically used for optimal BOLD contrast, these gradients had much smaller effects at both fields, consistent with the
decreasing blood t2 for increasing field strength. 
gradient echo BOLD %changes, with relatively long echo times at both fields, were virtually unattenuated by gradients that
attenuated blood contribution because the EV BOLD surrounding both large and small vessels dominated. they conclude that
spin echo BOLD at 4 and 7T, with TE approaching tissue T2, significantly reduce non-specific mapping signal from large
vessels, and accentutates microvascular contributions. 

BOLD contrast is dependent on blood vessel diameter, magnetic field strength, and image acquisition method (HSE) vs GE. 
the BOLD effect arising from the capillary bed can be expected to have the same spatial extent as perfusion and oxygen
metabolism induced by synaptic neuronal activity. on the other hand, functional maps based on BOLD effects originating from
the larger diameter draining veins can be distant from the site of neuronal activity, therefore minimizing the macro-vasc.
contribution is critical for high resolution FMRI. the BOLD signal arises from both an intravascular and extravascular 
component, in both small and large vessels. the EV effects of large vessels can be eliminated using HSE experiments, 
because the 180deg RF pulse refocuses the static dephasing induced by magnetic field inhomogeneities around large blood
vessels. the IV BOLD component exists because blood deoxyhemoglobin content strongly influences the T2 and T2* of blood,
as well as the susceptibility induced frequency difference between blood and surrounding tissue. both mechanisms contribute
to blood-related signals in GE FMRI. in HSE based FMRI, the susceptibility induced frequency difference between blood and
surrounding tissue is not relevant, but the IV effects persist because blood T2 is dependent on blood oxygen state. the IV
effect originates from venous vessels of all sizes, and is a potential source of innacurate activation signals. 