february_2018
no distractions, straight to the point - diablo 2 speedrun style

tonight: 

finish the article and send to kevin
email creative for all new campaigns to astoria (all home improvement campaigns)
download search terms and add more negative keywords to all your campaigns 
work out

today: first update hours for windows campaign (done, 24hr)
next - create 3 more campaigns (done by noon at latest) - adt, replacement siding, garage door
smoke, think about new ideas for generating campaigns
work on didactic/coupling paper (Vague - download all the possible articles you can use in the didactic and pick the best ones)
start working on app again.

new routine: do the heavy lifting in the morning (hardcore programming, c# unity), do 3-4hrs straight without break, then take the rest of the
day to do easier tasks such as writing or making figures, preparing talks/posters, etc. 

today: do 2 more indicators, and set up 2 new campaigns. record EEG in response to different spatial/temporal frequencies in yourself (get matrix) 
and analyze results. start thinking about ways to write up the orientation paper.

tomorrow: eeg experiment, finish all indicators, add more campaigns, pause keywords that suck, prepare poster idea for create. 
make timeline for app - 45 days from now (end of march) - released

long term
release unity version of new forex app (aim for 10-15$ purchases)
	landing page + online sales pitch + app store - 
publish structure paper and get draft of coupling paper
start new eeg experiments with jessily
	start piloting this next week, talk to kevin, find a stimulus that affects alpha/beta and not gamma, and gamma but not alpha/beta
	orientation tuning, spatial/temporal frequency tuning, etc 
consistent profits with pay per call (1 new offer per day on average)
complete didactic

new routine: money 4 hrs+, work 4hrs max. 
so, spend 3-4 hours on science/phd per day, and spend 4hrs or more on growing your business and making money.
first thing to do - release the unity version of the forex app, make sure it works for desktop and mobile. have a desktop version and a mobile version, use
a landing page to drive downloads of your desktop version. 

end of this week (sunday 25) - test more stimuli try to find stimuli that will modulate alpha/beta but not gamma ie hold gamma constant while modulating alpha/beta
alpha/beta seems to be more sensitive to movement speed, but only if you have a relatively low spatial frequency


other parameter matrices you could test? contrast/randomization, size/contrast, size/randomization, size/orientation, etc

get a list of all possible modulations and test those. 
jia uses the following: [size, noise, contrast, orientation]
can also add [spatial freq, temporal freq, luminosity, cross-orientation, brown/pink/white noise, direction, ]

list:

[size, contrast, randomization, orientation, direction, spatial freq, temporal freq, luminosity, eccentricity]

tomorrow - 
joel stuff, retinotopic experiment on joel (done)
start building coupling figures on desktop (use scripts from laptop) 
book MRI for orientation experiment (not abe)
talk to lyes (paper) talk to greg (eye tracker) 
submit RBIQ (done)
start 1 new campaign (ppc) 
get bitcoin data (1 minute) (donish)
create stimulus for gamma experiment

today: contrast x randomization, luminosity x contrast? 
need to find a way to modulate alpha and beta while holding gamma constant. maybe a retinotopic scheme?  
if you keep a quadrant active and periodically perturb input to other quadrants, you should be able to perturb alpha/beta without creating gamma. 
then, you can use this to distinguish between BOLD responses in different areas when there is/isn't a gamma inducing stimulus? 
so basically, have some random noise in the background that constantly modulates alpha/beta, but also drag a quadrant through the visual field?

a full field method would be better - more SNR and no localization bias...

basically, you want to modulate alpha/beta while holding gamma constant, and see what BOLD does (without using spatially specifici stimuli). 
one way is using attention, but this introduces other variables. you want to do it by driving the visual system purely on feedforward input

try the rnd/contrast gratings. might give something interesting. 

today: finish the didactic literature review. you have two articles, now add a third (the epidemiological study)
that will give you a wide range of articles (EEG sleep measures, effects of melatonin on cricket immune system, and epidemiological study in nurses) 
then, read everything you have so it forms a cohesive picture in your mind 
	create an outline of how you want to present these results - ie, what is circadian rhythm, how is it generated, how is it controlled, etc. 

cancel all paused campaigns. 
send 29 to stacey makin









