predicting the market:

use bollinger bands and moving average
have the following vector:

price - bband1
price - bband2
price - mvg

predict the following: price 5,10,15, etc minutes in the future

certain strategies work in certain conditions - identify the conditions under which tehy work - how? 
group all the winners and losers, and then find the difference in volume etc

purely technical analysis does not seem like it is going to work. market is too random
need to take advantage of fundamentals, dividends, and interest rates. 

how do you see the business landscape shaping up? obviously AI will be important. more automation, less manual labor jobs. robotics companies,
globalization, interest rates increasing. forex markets have been flat which means more opportunity for swing trading, and holding on to
high interest currency pairs. 

hedging and swing trading with currency pairs - is it mathematically feasible? 
technical analysis of stocks - get a sense for the type of turnaround that you see on average, how does the stock behave? 
don't chase returns, instead, look for good opportunities to invest and take them

get more data - instead of trying to predict based on technical analysis, get a sense for the underlying correlation structure and behavior
of different commodities and indices ie, is gold correlated to oil? 

the most important thing should be accurate time stamps
understand how all the pieces fit together.
your strategy should be based around dividends, interest rates, and buying dips for value while hedging when the opportunity presents itself
your goal is to make money, but don't think you will find a holy grail that you can set and forget. you need to make small gains, understand
value and where there are dissociations (money making opportunities)


don't think about "making 20% a year" or whatever. instead, focus on minimizing risk and exposure, while making a stable monthly/weekly profit.
once you have proven to yourself that you can survive trading real money with a reasonable frequency in the market, you can open up and start
making some larger investments. 

for example, if two currency pairs are typically correlated, 

goal #1: understand the major instruments, (futures, indices, forex, etc) and how they are all interrelated, and the cost of doing business
	look for instruments that pay out on interest rates, dividends, etc (REITs, forex interest, what else?)
		ask this question on investopedia
goal #2: get historical data from the major instruments, pay if you have to. set up a web-scraping service, or get a broker that allows you
to constantly monitor data. you want to get the 'state' of the market quickly and automatically, to identify trading opportunities 
	historical data service for historical analyis
	web scraping or broker to get real time data, and build market 'state' to identify opportunities 
		this service should not depend on any long duration to set up, and 
		historical data - alignment in time is the most important factor
		build your own infrastructure

goal #3: set up a live account with a reputable broker and start making small trades. 

generate some trading ideas 

idea #1: find value in correlation anomalies (when you know it has moved out of wack and will probably come back) and combine that with passive
income from dividends, interest rates, etc 

idea #2: hedging with passive income in your favor - you can also try selling peaks in anticorrelation, and buying back dips 
	ie, if two indices are historically correlated, but are moving away from that pattern, buy and wait (look for indices with interest)







