goals 2019

financial/investing....................

basic overview: get as much money as you can for your time, and invest that money in diversified, high ROI assets. live frugally and don't
spend your salary on expensive luxury items (use your assets for that once you have built up enough), don't go into high interest debt
initialize corporation with greg, buy first sherbrooke property in late 2019 
	first property should yield 15%+ CoC (15% ROI after all expenses) 
continue to add to wealthsimple and wealthsimple investment accounts (2k total by end of year between the two)
	see if you can beat the performance following the graham method (download ebook and listen in car) (get the data online) 
save 40% of your income (once you start getting paid by bishops) - 2000$/month - add to wealthsimple and inheritance account, keep a 5k
cushion in your bank account (+5k cc = 10k liquid cash on hand). 
5,200$/month net - rent+food=1200, car=150, 

property filters: 1.7-2.2% rule, 25% mortgage payment rule, 10% CoC


health/looks...........................

lose 20 pounds  (10 by july) but maintain your max rep lifts ie, 275x10 ATG squat, 225x10 bench, 365x5 DL
achieve this by dieting down (use myfitnesstracker app)
keep growing and styling your beard
maintain a strong, lean and healthy body while taking care of your joints/internal organs through calorie restriction 
and low impact training (elliptical, swimming, lighter weights/higher reps with impeccable form)
see the gym as a means to an end - its nice to have a buff looking body but the body is just a vehicle for the mind.
change your mindset about fitness and the body. you want to preserve your body as much as possible so you can remain active into your
60's and 70's. also, exercise benefits the brain, so keep active to receive the brain benefits as well. ask madjid about soccer
make sure you get a good night's sleep, buy a new bed if you have to. completely block out all light and sound from your sleeping environment
quit weed and alcohol completely. by 2020, you should be off weed for 6 months (starting in july) 
get tested for zika and stds, get a general health overview checkup and doctor's advisory (blood pressure, etc)


work/research..........................

publish 2 more articles from Sherbrooke (orientation coupling, simultaneous/sleep/mongoose)
network more in montreal, get a better outlook on grant landscape (andre arnold, bob webb) 
specifically: find out what type of grant applications are getting funded, from which agencies, and how you can work that into
your own research infrastructure. 
base your initial purchases using your startup money on this research. find out how to combine sherbrooke infrastructure with grant $$$
ideas: TMS, NIRS, MRI, FMRI, DWI, EEG. NIRS on bodyparts other than the brain? (the gut?) 
preliminary ideas: 
start asking questions on reddit and other computer science forums about app design/data science courses, best way to teach, what to teach
talk to other profs at bishops and find out how your courses can build upon/prepare students for other courses 
networking at OHBM - find people/profs with data/hardware that complements your own (montreal/mcgill)

BEFORE you leave sherbrooke (june 30), you want to take advantage of as much of the free scanning/equipment you can.
things to do before you leave: EPI cardiac imaging, NIRS of heart/gut, redesign the old cap, maybe with some type of material that can hold
the EEG electrodes like a thin styrofoam, use two EEG caps and two sets of amps, two laptops, triggers to time-lock the signal

you want to target bodily disorders/diseases that are major public health concerns - heart and gut are of much higher priority than brain
read about early-career researcher grants requirements, see how this fits with arnold's outlook. 


personal...............................

get valerie preganant
spend more time with twins (godfather) 
spend more time with dad/karl 
work on your own personal development (read more books, put them into practice) 
true confidence is being less invested in othher's perceptions of you than in your perception of yourself. 
'investment' meaning the degree to which you sacrifice your own thoughts/feelings/motivations for someone else 
'men who are unconfident and lack vulnerability will keep their boundaries loose and open, inviting manipulation and letting others
walk all over them. they alter themselves to obtain validation'
'a guy with game is a guy who can polarize quickly and confidently'
