weekend of april 7-8
goal: finish all auto-trader stuff for app 
	main objectives:

	1) complete auto trader workshop -> allow user to set up their own entry/exit criteria using dropdown menus
		first thing - skip mode and recreate your own auto trader in the workshop, to make sure it works. 
		auto-entry trigger: select indicator parameters -> get the indicator -> set triggers, etc. 
			finsih both indicator setups, then do the trigger setup. goal is to have most of the auto-trader custom indicators working by tonight
			change the entry trigger colors
		auto-entry filter - 
		move the cancellation button down	
		goal by the end of today: recreate the bollinger band using custom indicator creator 
			have a cancel button only up till the final step (then add the accept button) 

	TOMORROW: two main goals: 1) complete the auto trader custom indicators
			          2) test the auto trader incorporating higher time frame somehow (or just use long duration lower TF) 

	fix the cancel/accept - only when all parameters are complete
	fix the purple boxes (done)
	add in the stop/take profit (done)  
	add in some more indicators. should have the stop/take profit, bollinger bands, and the framework complete + some other indicators by end of day 
	tomorrow - FIX the exit thing - need to reverse the exit markers??? (done)
	aroon, cci, rsi, stochastic. finish all these today, and send figures to kevin. 
	everything seems to be working. test on phone, and then do the automatic skip mode, and fix the faster time frame advances
		fix the faster time advances, and add some more speeds so you can advance it that way (done) 
		save an auto-trader and remove an auto-trader dropdowns - once the user has created their own auto-trader, save it (and save it for that account) 		
		today: save the auto-trader, and be able to load previously-saved auto-traders. 

		once you have saved the auto-trader, test the trade analyzer and account summary using it. 

			how to save and load different auto-traders? you want to save the parameters only, and when the user selects the auto-trader,
			load up the saved version. when they create a new one, append it to the list and save those parameters as well. 	
				first thing to do: create a saved auto-trader automatically, add it to the list, and use it to trade. 
				works, now get it from the saved auto-trader list.
				first thing to do, when the user presses the "auto-trader workshops button" initialize the saved auto-trader.
					if there is no existing saved auto trader file, it creates a new array, if there is, it loads the array. 
				you need to go from the saved auto trader parameters to the actual auto-trader. 
				so save the auto-trader indicator parameters in a savedindicator, then use a switch statement to grab the parameters
				in autotrader.cs, you want to just go directly from saved autotrader to autotraderinstance. 
				
				1) pre-loaded auto trader. go to saved auto trader, then go to instance. then try saving newly created (done)
				2) don't forget about the take profit condition. 
				successfully saving and loading auto traders - now need to add option to delete, improve the labels, and remove auto traders
				from the plot in real time (ie, from the currently selected user). 
				^^^^^^^^^^^^ once this is done, you will be 2 steps away from release (trade analyzer + account summary) 
				(and the optimal parameters from the matlab script) 
			
			all strategy parameters - save unique params for each currency and timeframe? 				
			need a way to sort strategies according to how well they work on each currency



	next step - write in the optimized parameters for all the currencies, for a few select strategies. 
		run the overall strategy finder again, and select the top 5 strategies to optimize. 

	2) get parameters for all strategies for 15m, 30m, 60, 240m, and daily bars (and save in code or text file) 
	3) add 3-4 more promising strategies (aroon, macd, etc) so you have a nice stable of pre-optimized auto-traders. 
		these pre-optimized auto-traders need to work, otherwise the user will be skeptical/disillusioned
	4) auto trader skip mode (skip to end)(DONE), and auto trader info box (check parameters of auto trader)
		test all mode - test all currencies with a single auto-trader paradigm? 
	5) misc stuff: 
		advance increment -> if >1, find a way to check all available preceding bars (done)
		high/low - take this into account when entering/exiting the auto-trader (and matlab strategy as well) (done, does not affect)
	
	today: make sure that the auto trader loading/saving works with stop/take profit, improve labels, and input 5 strategies. 
		make it so the auto-trader loads automatically when selecting the loaded user. (done) 
			also have a "using auto-trader" string and a mode where you manually trade and the autotrader only generates signals. (done)
		a way to remove previously added auto-traders. "clear list" option (done)
		MACD auto-trader option (done)
		test all configurations extensively, with/without stop/tp 
		today you want to be completely finished with the auto-traders
			first step - save auto-trader and re-load user (use the pre-optimized one) (done)
		also be able to remove auto-trader? (done) 
		
other stuff to finish app:
	account summary, trade analyzer, sounds, compression. should be ready to release by next friday. 

getting the auto-trader parameters from matlab - re-run the script that tries all the parameters, and get the top 5 (diverse) 
	once you have selected the top 5, create a separate matlab script for each, and optimize the parameters for each currency and timeframe.
	save the optimized timeframes and currency parameters for each auto-trader configuration as a text file, and then load that in unity and test on a few 
	currencies to make sure it works. 

science - FMRI add up the quadrants/hemis, see if it matches the EEG. get contrast response function. get orientation tuning oblique/cardinal. 
process jessily data


tomorrow - monday - goals:
	run ALL currencies and time frames, SAVE data, and get it loaded into your preselected auto-trader dropdown.
	finish the account summary AND the trade analyzer. 
	AND get the compression done, compress down to ~250mb. 
	also find a way to change dropdown options to premium colors etc. 
	ONCE these two steps are complete, the app will be ready to release.
	show a profit curve and cancel button for account summary (done in 30 minutes tomorrow) (with and without spread) and fix the average win/loss
	finish trade analyzer tomorrow. 
	compression + autotrader + inapp purchases by friday
	GOAL: on the app store by this friday!!!!! work hard and it is doable. 

for account summary: monthly and yearly ROI, then done, average time in trade 


compression + dropdown colors + IAP = done. 	
dropdown colors doesn't look like it will be doable. find another way to get premium options. or just release a straight up paid app...
next - compression. how to unzip these binary files??? (done) 
movie - create a promo movie, showing off all the features. 
add home button to main menu (done) 
do some testing, try to break the app. 

what will be premium? 
	only a few currencies (where pre-optimized works)
	certain time frames (30 minutes only)
	certain indicators (moving average, bollinger bands)

in-app purchasing - first set up what is premium and what isn't, then see if you can unlock it by pressing purchase, then install the APK on google play
store and see if it works with your CC. 

a simple first step - time frames. premium/not premium. 

need to reduce the size of the app to 100mb. that means eliminating 100/250 = 60% of of the currencies. 


SELLING POINT - need to make the auto-trader convincing - restrict the premium access to currencies that perform more poorly on the autotrader
tomorrow (saturday) - set up all the premium features (account summary, auto-trader, etc) along with "premium feature only" message
get the 5 pre-optimized auto-traders loaded into unity and 

today:

add auto-traders
add premium labels and restrictions (According to auto-traders) along with text popup that says  "premium only" or something	
fix text sizes and leverages
test for 1 hr and write down everything that goes wrong, fix all that. 
add readme/help to main menu

goal today: get the app on the appstore
get the auto-traders installed, finish the premium options, and then put on app store BOOM

first - get all the labels working with the premium/nopremium purchase, then implement the logic and the popup (do the stress test before the logic)

App has been released!!! 

now, need to start marketing it and selling it on your website with a landing page, and release it to the apple play store 

next - the sales part, and the working out of bugs and posting updates part (for android)
spend 30minutes-1hr writting down all the small stuff that needs fixing in the next release,

tomorrow - finish all the nagging issues, release the new version, and get more keywords from the keyword list you downloaded. 
	other stuff for this week: FINISH landing page for website, get approved for jneur, get more FMRI subjects (3) and finalize results
	start planning RPG game. work on movie for auto-trader app. 

return car in surance payment, cash work cheque. 
rank all forex keywords by monthly clicks, and use the top keywords in your 

more market research - do more research surrounding forex and other things that interest you, find what people google the most. 
start working on the landing page and online shop. make a new project with more data and currencies, that you can use more data on (2gb total) 

first, make the movie. you can use this for the app and then make a better one for the website. 

save it to bitbucket. 
