goals_before_ohbm

goals before june 10th 2018

1) release app on apple store, and a desktop version using landing page and paid search 

	fix those small bugs, create the desktop version, and make movie. release movie for app, and then work on online version. 
	have a rough copy of the movie done tonight. 
	Movie template: start by showing how to use the app (remove all premium stuff)
		show some indicators, show some auto-traders. 
		improve the video - make it start off more exciting, and put labels at each scene
		movie - start with a multiple moving average plot. trade for a few seconds. add some indicators, remove some indicators.
		do the auto-trader, and then go back to the main menu and show some of the options. make sure to underline everything with the mouse
	market the app for 1 week on play store to drive downloads, and get on 3-5 forums and list it 
	tomorrow - fix bugs in the morning, get the final desktop version working by 12. scan subjects in afternoon, and write script/generate grand average by 6pm
	have your desktop version listed on your website with a primitive landing page (test buy yourself) by tomorrow night 
	
	strategy that makes money - overnight swap direction + indicators that work. feasible? 

	this week - get the website setup to download and market your app. 
	start marketing your app on facebook (5$ per day, see how many installs you can get) 
		keep marketing in the forex facebook groups
	condense the pitch, fix the product page, and create a better landing page with images. 
		get all the parameters for the different strategies. 
	
	by friday - have people visiting your landing page, facebook ads working, and 
		tomorrow morning - set up the laptop script to get the optimal strategies, condense the pitch, add more images to the pitch?
		create a laundry list of buzzwords for the landing page - what are you selling exactly? 
	fix the small bugs and release another version of the unity app
	look into releasing a mac version (or wait till june) 

	get MQL4 strategy working, continue to fine-tune in matlab. once you have an aroon strategy that can reproduce matlab results in historical testing,
	apply it on short timeframe data and make sure it works as it should, then switch to the 15m bars, and demo test for 1 month on VPN. 
		be able to open and close orders on the CCI. get the aroon parameters. try a similar strategy using bollinger bands. 

	tonight: get the strategy working on aroon indicators. reproduce what you got in matlab. 

	tomorrow - make your own aroon indicator, and try to reproduce some results on that. see if you get the same pattern of good and bad currencies 
		ie nzdcad vs eurjpy
	right now there's probably something wrong with the indicator because you're getting only 1/4 of the #trades you should be getting. 
		also, try bollinger band strategy with 

	once you're confident MT4 is reproducing your strategy, get all the currencies together in on strategy and then get the vpn working. 
		test all the EAs on fxdd, then migrate to global prime when you are ready. 
	strategies - find a new strategy that is more robust and doesn't depend so much on the parameters you choose. 
		get as much dukascopy data as possible (From further back than just 2014)



2) publish another paper using your retinotopy/orientation data (+fmri)
	get those three subjects this thursday (francis + two others) 
	process these subjects today, get the 5 subject FMRI average in matlab (after verifying single subject data) 
	abstract should be done by sunday, then concentrate on the paper until you leave for ohbm in june. 

3) release another small app on android (using unity) something like hungry shark or big hunter. a simple physics based game
	find out what kind of apps people are looking to buy (spyfu) 
	or look in a particular niche, and find what peopl care about most within that niche...






trade exit strategies - trailing stop, bband exit, etc... 
	you want to find exits within exits, and entries within entries. ie, once price has crossed your threshold, look for an even better exit.
	once price has entered your entry range, look for a better entry. 












