goals: before september 4 2019 (first day of classes at bishops)
finish preparing slides and all outlines for your two courses
pay off cc, loc, and all other debts, start adding to your rbc investment fund (email marc)
submit or have prepared to submit at least 2 grants (frqnt + nserc) and search for other sources (internal, CDRV etc)
acquire iphone and apple watch, as well as another smartwatch device 
continue to grow beard, restrict calories, and work out - want to be 165 ripped with good facial aesthetics 
never forget that your #1 goal at bishops for the first semester is to succeed in teaching your first two classes. so, the majority of your
time leading up to september 4 (at least 50% of each day on average, 5 hours) should be spent preparing slides). 60*5 = 300 hours, 3 hours
of preparation for every hour of lecture, 12 weeks * 6 hours per week = 72 hours of lecture. 

see each day as you did when you were treeplanting - you have 10 hours to accomplish as much as you can. if you can start early,
the chances of hitting a new personal best are increased.

"by may 1st 2024 i will have in my possession 1 million dollars liquid net worth and 20,000/month passive income, of which 5,000 
will be net passive income. i will also have a total net worth of 2 million dollars, mostly in property in the kingston/sherbrooke area
i will also have accumulated over 1 million dollars in grant funding from federal, provincial, and private granting agencies, which i will
use to recruit and train students, publishing high impact articles in top life science journals."

"in exchange for this money, i will give intelligent real estate purchases in the sherbrooke area, buying low maintenance, high income
properties for as little money down as possible, increasing the rent every year. I will also practice frugal spending habits, saving at
minimum 1500$/month, which will be deposited directly into my investment account. i will increase my net monthly income through work as
a research assistant, and side hustle such as the forex game app/business. i will be meticulous in my grant preparation, with multiple
revisions based on comments from no less than 5 faculty members at sherbrooke and bishops. i will search for creative funding opportunities
in addition to the conventional provincial/federal sources"

