goals by 2018 
ULTIMATE GOAL = be completely self supported, by your online mobile app business, by the time you graduate your phd. 
to do this, you will have to be making 40-50$ per day minimum. 	
you want to write a minimum of 1000 lines per day (text and code combined) 
another way to phrase this: you want to be making more from your online business than through your phd salary by the time you graduate
IMEKA - talk to the person there about starting a business. 

what do you want to have accomplished by 2018?

-------fitness/health------
cardio: rowing 20 minutes > 1100cal/hr (400 calories in 20 minutes)
lifts: bench press 225x10, military press 155x10, 30 chinups, 30 single-legged squats, 50 incline situps
weight ~180, lose body fat, gain muscle
marijuana/alcohol - avoid entirely (by December 31, it will be 6 months no weed, you should have recovered completely by then)
	see how you feel on no weed? remember how much you accomplished before you started smoking again - its like night and day
	you accomplish literally 3-5x as much when you don't smoke weed. just keep that in mind whenever you get the urge to smoke. 
	all those ideas you thought up when you were high, they basically went up in smoke. 
meditation/yoga? nah...instead of meditating 20 minutes a day, focus on the think and grow rich idea 20 minutes a day or 10 minutes
supplements - try alpha brain, get green supplements as a bare minimum 
diet - avoid eating out so much. intermittent fasting (don't eat till 2pm minimum), buy only healthy stuff at the grocery, avoid bread
clean your room and wash your clothes, get some better outfits, look sharp, keep clean, smell good, basic stuff etc 
clean your car and get it checked out in november (5 months from now) 
avoid blasting your ears, or putting point objects in your ears, picking your nose, scratching your head, etc, all these bad habits 

-------hobbies--------
rpg game 
	re-work physics engine for collision detection - still getting the occasional crash, and not sure why, also, the fact that
	its still crashing when you have tons of quick fixes and crappy patch ups is a bad sign that it needs to be re-worked
	for the game - maybe once the physics engine is working properly, just concentrate on making a very simple hack and slash
	points gaining game, instead of a more complicated RPG 	
forex game (put adds, or sell it straight up (easier just to sell probably, just put a price on it and sell it straight up)
	things to finish for this: 
	major fixes: test it on another platform (ie, on an emulator) to make sure it works as it should on different screens
	fix the account loading/saving bug - doesn't always load/save properly, ie, it doesn't properly save the account as it should
	maybe switch to a completely text based loading/saving scheme, so there's no confusion with the objects? 
	add an indicator - simple moving average should be fine. 
	mostly just fix the loading/saving bug, and then put it online for a fixed price (5$?) 
another misc app (to practice making money from adds, and work on your interface) 
	maybe just a random game with fancy buttons? or some kind of image based game..
	an agenda type timer app - you can add custom activities, with custom icons, and create a list that allows you to save your
	time and score for each iteration of that activity. then it also gives you stats and stuff by "averaging each activity" and
	plotting your progress. 
	progress tracker - create arbitrary icons, average them, and track them over time 
think and grow rich - re-read, and practice what it says to accomplish your goals
	ie, fix in your mind an image of what you want to become, and spend 20 minutes per day focusing on that image. 
website - start posting your apps and science stuff on your website - articles, and apps, and photos, start learning some web prog.

-------financial--------
5k in the bank, all debts paid off, clean credit card. 
be making money off of you google play account - release the forex app, sell it for 1.99 or something (won't ma	ke much but first step)
done - app released...now we wait. 4.99 to play, probably won't get very many downloads but w.e, its just a test. got the first app
released. 

release a free version of forexprice action: disable timeslot, currency, and news events, release just one currency
put your app on the amazon app store as well

another algorithmic trading app? 
--------work/science--------
structure paper published (submitted by august)
	right now at 1373 words, methods are 1/2 done (Another 500 words), results are 2/3 done, still have to write introduction
	and discussion and add references. should have a rough draft for kevin by next tuesday-wednesday.
	
coupling paper submitted by december, and submitted to ISMRM (Dave+your own results)
	denoise Dave's data (work on the gradient subtraction algorithm some more) - and compute the same results as you did for 
	your own data (source localize, coupling in each voxel, etc). 
at work - avoid WASTING so much time on POINTLESS shit ie conor mcgregor vs floyd mayweather, bodybuilding forum, facebook, etc. 
	at the bare minimum, instead of focusing on that shit just read some wikipedia articles or something about web design. 
today: finish all the results (Get the actual numbers) and finish the figure 1 also. (design and finish). 	

