higher timeframe - adding in the higher timeframe as an indicator. 
how to do this? base it on the timestamps, use the closest time point to the current time point and then build up the final candle from there
check if volume works now

step 1: load the new timeframe dataset
step 2: find the time point that matches the latest time point of the current plot
step 3: build the vector of candles + the latest candle which is partially complete. 

you'll need to make a separate drawing function for the new, higher timeframe - 
	try this first, just get a higher timeframe displaying as another indicator box

NEXT - need to synchronize the higher timeframe with the lower when you plot it in the display box (this will be 90% of the work done, then
just need to create the current bar which is always incomplete) 

Next - draw the higher time frame in candles, not bars. 

next - find the closest time point to the current time point, and advance in whatever the increment may happen to be. 

once you've found the closest index, then what? you want to build up the lower time frame vector so that the candle chart is continuously updated

for now (tonight) - just try to plot a candle chart that jumps forward once the next time point has been crossed

next step = draw the high time frame in candles, and make sure it matches the lower time frame. 
next step = update the higher time frame when the price advances/is scrolled
	how to do this - use the time stamp, or use the divider + offset? 
	get the base time stamp from the base time frame, and update the higher time frame with each iteration. (done_
	seems to be working now - now make it work for the scrolling backwards (maybe just need to update with on-scroll function?) (done)
	make it so it goes directly to the loading screen - why isn't it doing this now? because you changed some stuff in account (done) 

once you have the scrolling, the edge case, and the continuous bar finished, put it on the phone and do some stress testing.
	edge cases - maximum number of time points to display, and options dropdown based on base time frame
then, get all the instruments, zipped, and save.
then, account loading/saving status (time point, trade markers, account balance, etc) 
then, trade analyzer/statistics, ability to select different time periods (calendar), convert timestamps back to yyyymmdd 

getting the continuous candle - you need to know the higher time frame period, and the base time frame period
right now you have the index of the base time frame period's current bar, and the index of the closest preceding bar on the higher time frame
you need to know how many base tf bars are between the preceding high time frame bar, and the current base tf bar: try printing the time stamp, see what you get

just find how many time points away the next time stamp is, and subtract that from the difference between the two timeframes?

options dropdown 
#bars and starting index (of base time frame) (done)
text label at top (done) 
scroll back limit (done) 

stop, take profit markers (done)
stop, take profit logic (done)
	use high and low as well (done)

current spread display
current spread logic

5 more days till april
by then, you want to have the everything besides the trade analyzer/account summary and auto trader patched up. 
another stop/take profit option - from high point (try it in auto trader matlab first) - get the current high/low, and exit based on that (5,10 pips whatever)
try the auto trader with higher time frames as well. actually this is the same as just entering randomly, except it allows you to use your own entries

creating new matlab script for auto trader while finishing the app - and then add it in to the app as another feature. 

today: save all trade settings include multiple accounts, trade index, open/closed trades, indicator status, open/closed trades, etc 
start with something simple and fast - save the index. (done)
next - save a simple indicator
	try to just create a simple indicator without saving anything first (from the loading screen)  (done)
next - save open and closed trades  (done) - but something fucked up when you close the app without saving? (done)
save stop/take profit, bars, leverage, speed, equity, grid, price-line (done)
next - get a subset of all currencies and instruments but containing all varieties (so you know it works - btc, jpy, usd, dukas instruments)
display the stop and take profit
write all currencies and time-frames 

display dates - convert double to date-time? 

finish the above two today, and finish the APP by this weekend (should be doable) -> auto trader + trade analyzer + account summary.  

what form should the saved indicators have? 
the saveduser fields should be updated every time the field is changed, and saved when the user presses back or exits the app 

GOAL: release the app by end of easter break
march 31:

add all currencies with all time frames and test individual ones (done)
get pip scale of all currencies and test on jpy, eur, zar, etc (done) 
show spread (done)
get the names of the more exotic instruments (done)
complete mobile version data loading (30 minute for all 60-odd currencies + pairs) (done) 
save multiple users (done)
^^^ get this done today for sure (visualize in matlab first, get mean spread and pipscale, save to csv) 

create account statistics panel full
misalignment between selected and displayed instrument (probably in plot)
fix text labels (minute_0001, etc) 
make sure leverage working for different instruments 
create trade analyzer panel skeleton (sunday/monday) 
create auto trader panel skeleton (sunday/monday)
finish IAP tutorial 
write description/sales pitch, get screenshots, etc. 
decide on premium features 
test multi-timeframe auto-trader in matlab 
premium features vs free features (green/red?) how to distinguish
^^^^^by monday night

today: test the auto-traders in matlab, and get at least one simple auto-trader working in unity. 
tomorrow - finish the auto traders in c# before you do anything else! 
release the apple version once you start working at Imeka 

auto-trader - should be two options, build your own auto-trader, or use a pre-optimized auto-trader. 
remove auto-trader mode. 

goal by lunch: have the bollinger band reversal auto-trader strategy working. 
first thing: add the bollinger bands to the plot, and return to the main plot screen. 
next - display the trades on the plot (no logic first) 
display trades is working, next, need to add in the logic. 
logic should be simple - just add in buy and sell signals (using plot, or whatever) to the tradecontroller 












