ICA decompositions to source space - and then denoising further in source space? 
what does it mean to run ICA on source space signals? you can isolate different components, but is it actually separating signal from noise?
also, how can you combine all the frequency bands into a spatial ICA? 


the next step - source space EEG vs source space resting state FMRI - voxel-wise comparisons, examine coupling at each voxel
-> upsample EEG power to FMRI space, register to FMRI


comparing sources with FMRI - the best way would be to get your FMRI into the same space as your grid, and then just compare on a voxel by voxel
basis in matlab so you wouldn't have to save each source image to disk and run those correlations...but then you run into the problem of the grid being too
large for the FMRI comparisons - upsample each source time point to the same resolution as the FMRI? 
or somehow get a transformation direction from source to EPI and transform them in afni. 


first thing to do - get gamma, alpha, and BOLD correlation maps with the stimulus design time course - grand average for each subject
-> compare those to the grand average power in alpha/beta and gamma frequencies. show that gamma and alpha/beta have different spatial extent of their correlations,
and compare those to BOLD 

correlate the continuous gamma time series with the stimulus design time course and save the correlation maps - 
get openmeeg head model with 6mm voxels, compute correlations with gamma and bold in each voxel, compute first correlations with gamma and timeseries in each voxel
if you can localize it well to the occipital, it should correlate with BOLD also...

source correlation maps look wack - could this be due to the source estimate method, or some other factor? 
try using a beamformer that you estimate noise/data covariance with using signals and copy it to the other dataset 

beamformer appears to give much nicer results - still a bit odd in the alpha/beta range, however.
	this strangeness is due to the fact you take the mean of the x,y,z components - don't do this, compute them separately and 
	average the results 
by the end of tomorrow, you want the following:
1) beamformer source localizations in all subjects
2) correlations of alpha/beta and gamma with stimulus design in all subjects 