tomorrow: 
main goal: FINISH the app - all selection and bug fixes

3) improve the vascular maps - more detail, if possible - you have a bit more space, can add this. 
4) -add t2, tof, swi background textures? 
6) fix the track color erasing bug
8) scale the icon size to the screen, and the scrolling size as well - test on different devices
9) add icons for all the buttons 
13) make it so you can select fibers by color (or just set their iso-surface to green and transparent) 
15) ROI selection remove previously selected
16) de-select when clicked twice
17) color ventricles from subcortical
19) fix subcortical button surface toggling (not working when pressing subcortical buttons) 
20) improve the track selection colliders

once the above are done, the app is finished. test it on different devices and then release to google play and App store
APP is slow on the phone - reduce the size of colliders further? nope, turns out it was the renderer
seems like its not the colliders, but the renderer from other surfaces - veins, arteries, etc?
	-disable the renderer when not in use, fixed *  

once all the major changes are done, either mirror the cameras, or change the labels everywhere. 
add comments in code

today: finish all the above. complete the app, and set up an account for Imeka on google play. 
including: 
1) selecting the tracks - turn green, deselect - turn back to normal color
2) change it to only select the ROI if it is set to active - and change the color, but don't use clicks to deselect/select ROIs 
3) increase font size
2) switching the selected cortical and subcortical (and track) ROIs - link this up with buttons also?
4) icons and phone icon
	-2nd loading icon (imeka + usherbrooke and your name) 
5) add comments 
6) update the meshes to make them more accurate (test if this is necessary) 
7) fix the colluding but notactive colliders 
8) fix colluding colliders when subcortical, cortical, and tracks are all in play. 
once these are complete, create a google play account for Imeka, and set up the app. 


publish the app as well 

pretty much everything is done, besides the left/right swap and the naming (which are related) 

still need an escape button to quit
fix the labels
some of the labels are set to zero for some reason
	- fix this by just using the string array



