impaired gamma band activity during perceptual organization in adults with ASD: evidence for dysfunctional network activity in 
frontal-posterior cortices 
abstract: current theories of the pathophsiology of ASD have focused on abnormal temporal coordination of neural activity in cortical
circuits as a core impairment of the disorder. the current study examines the possibility that gamma-band activity may be crucially
involved in abnormal brain activity during ASD. MEG data were recorded during presentation of mooney faces from 16 healthy controls
and 13 participants with ASD. participants with ASD showed elevated reaction times and reduced perceptual discrimination during
the presentation of upright mooney faces, while responses to inverted faces were in the normal range. impaired perceptual organization
in the ASD group was accompanied by a reduction in both the amplitude and phase locking of gamma band responses. in controls, 
perceptual organization of mooney faces involved increased 60-120HZ in a fronto-parietal network, while in the ASD group stronger
activity was found in visual regions. these findings highlight the contribution of impaired gamma band activity towards complex
visual processing in ASD, suggesting atypical modulation of high frequency power in fronto-posterior networks. 

introduction: ASD are predominantly genetically mediated syndromes, characterized by impairments in reciprocal social interaction
and communication alongside restricted and repetitive behaviors. they also involve a wide range of cognitive alterations, 
including changes in basic sensory processing and higher level cognitive processes. evidence is emerging that cognitive alterations
as well as clinical symptoms may emergy from impaired network organization. in support of this, several studies have demonstrated
impaired or altered functional connectivity during a range of tasks in ASD. however, FMRI provides only limited insights due to 
its low temporal resolution and the fact that it is not a true reflection of neural activity. EEG and MEG however allow measurement
of precise neural timing, fundamental for neural coding. oscillations in the gamma band range are of particular importance for 
establishing precise synchronization in cortical circuits. 
preliminary evidence suggests that gamma band activity may be associated to ASD. in the auditory domain, reduced entrainment at 40Hz
in ASD patients as well as their first degree relatives has been demonstrated. in the visual domain the evidence is conflicting,
with reports of both hyper and hypoactivity. to clarify the role of gamma band activity in ASD, mooney faces were used to stimulate
gamma band activity in high functioning ASD patients and a population of healthy controls, while measuring using MEG. based on 
current pathophysiological models of ASD which discuss a dysfunction in the excitation/inhibition balance, as well as atypical 
modulation in frontoposterior networks, reduced gamma band power during perceptual processing was expected in participants with 
ASD, as well as abnormal modulation of high frequenct activity in frontal, parietal, and sensory cortices. 