interactions between two different inhibitory systems in the human motor cortex: 
intracortical inhibition in the human motor cortex has been previously demonstrated using paired pulse TMS protocols at short (1-6ms)
with subthreshold conditioning pulse and suprathreshold test pulse, and long (LICI) with suprathreshold conditioning and test pulses
they investigated whether different circuits mediate these inhibitory phenomenon and how they interact. TMS was applied to the motor
cortex of 9 healthy volunteers, and MEP was recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. with increasing test pulse strength,
LICI decreases but SICI increases, there was no correlation between the degree of SICI and LICI. they tested the interactions between
sici and lici, sici was reduced or eliminated in the presence of lici. loss of sici was seen even with a conditioning stimulus too
weak to reduce significant lici. they conclude that different cell populations mediate sici and lici. the results are consistent 
with the hypothesis that lici inhibits sici through presynaptic gabab receptors. testing of sici in the presence of lici may be a 
non-invasive way of evaluating inhibitory mechanisms in the human motor cortex. 

introduction: cortical inhibitory systems play a crucial role in modulating cortical output. changes in cortical inhibition occur
in many neurological diseases and may also affect synaptic plasticity. cortical output depends on the balance between excitatory and
inhibitory systems. the inhibitory systems of the human motor cortex can be assessed non-invasively using tms, a widely used protocol
being a weak, subthreshold conditioning stimulus followed by a stronger suprathreshold test stimulus. the test responses are 
inhibited at isis of 1-6ms, and facilitated at isis of 8-30ms, these phenomena will be referred to as sici and intra-cortical
facilitation (icf). evidence that sici occurs in the cortex includes the reduction of descending corticospinal waves and an anodal
transcranial electrical stimulation test pulse, which directly activates corticospinal axons, is not inhibited by a TMS conditioning
pulse. 
sici is reduced prior to voluntary movement in the intended agonist but not in the antagonist muscle. changes in sici could serve to
focus the subsequent excitatory drive to produce the intended movement. alteration in sici and icf may mediate cortical plasticity,
and abnormalities of sici and icf have been reported in some neurological and psychiatric disorders such as parkinson's, dystonia,
and tourettes. 
another form of inhibition induced by TMS pulses is from a suprathreshold conditioning pulse applied 50-200ms prior to the test pulse,
referred to as long interstimulus interval intracortical inhibition (lici). as for sici, lici at isis of >50ms occurs in the cortex
due to absence of any change in spinal excitability, the failure to suppress the response to double TES, and marked reduction in 
corticospinal waves evoked by TMS. LICI has been shown to be abnormal in some conditions such as stroke, dystonia, and parkinsons. 
although both sici and lici are due to reduced cortical excitability, it is not known whether the same population of neurons mediates
both types of cortical inhibition. pharmacological studies suggest that the two forms of inhibition can be differentially modulated,
it has been hypothesized that sici is primarily mediated by gabaa receptors, while lici is mediated by gabab receptors, however the
evidence supporting activity at different receptor subtypes does not resolve the question of whether cell populations responsible
for sici and lici are themselves distinct. 
the presente study tests the hypothesis that different neuronal circuits mediate SICI and LICI. they first determine the effects of
different test stimulus intensities on sici and lici,  a different pattern of response would support the existence of two distinct
inhibitory circuits. they then examined the interaction of sici and lici in a triple stimulation protocol that allows to measure
sici in the presence of lici. 

methods: 9 healthy volunteers, 6 men 3 women, mean age 40. 
emg recording: surface emg was recorded from the right first dorsal interosseus muscle (fdi) with disposable disc electrodes in a 
tendon-belly arrangement. 
tms stimulation: a 7cm figure 8 coil and four magstim 200 stimulators, the setup allowed to deliver up to four pulses of different
intensities at very short ISI. the coil was placed at the optimal location for elicting mep from fdi. 

study design: each trial consisted of a test pulse, which could be preceded by one or two conditioning pulses. the conditioning pulse
could be at 2,10,or 100ms prior to the test pulse, labeled as test, cs2,cs10,and cs100. the intensities of test and cs100 were 
adjusted to achieve specific MEP amplitudes for each subject, and the strength of the pulses was labeled accordingly. stimulus 
intensity of 1mv indicates the minimum stimulator setting necessary to produce peak to peak mep amplitude of 1mv in 5/10 trials, .2
and 4mv are defined similarly. conditioning stimulus intensities were expressed as a percentage of the motor threshold, which was
determined at rest and defined as the minimum stimulator output that produced meps of >50uv in 5/10 trials. a stimulator setting at
80% of MT is given as 0.8mt. inhibition and facilitation were expressed as the ratio of the conditioned mep amplitudes to the
unconditioned mep amplitude. 
experiment 1: effects of test stimulus intensity on sici, icf, and lici: 
they examined whether changes in the test stimulus intensity had different effects on sici, icf, and lici. the intensities of the 
sub-threshold cs2 and cs10 were 0.8mt, and the intensity of the suprathreshold cs100 pulse to elicit lici was 1mv. each run consisted
of 10 trials each of a test stimulus alone, a cs2 test-stimulus pair, a cs10 pair, and cs100 pair, each delivered in random order. 
three test stimuli of 0.2, 1, and 4mv were studied in separate runs. 

experiment 2: effects of lici on sici and icf: 
this experiment investigated whether sici and icf were affected by lici. ten conditions were tested. each run consisted of 10 trials
of each of the 10 conditions delivered in random order. baseline sici, icf, and lici were determined for a 1mV test MEP. because
sici and icf may be affected by the size of the test response, and the preceding cs100 inhibits the test response, the strength of
the test pulse was increased to compensate for this effect. the strength of the test pulse was adjusted to produce 1mv mep in the 
presence of the earlier cs100 pulse, and this test pulse is referred to as 1mvcs100. sici and icf in the presence of preceding cs100
pulse were studied using three pulses. the experiment was designed to compare sici and icf in the presence of the cs100 pulse to 
SICI and icf in the absence of cs100 pulse matched for test MEP amplitude. 

experiment 3: effects of stronger cs2 and cs10 pulses: 
since the preceding cs100 pulse may also inhibit or reduce the effectiveness of the cs2 or cs10 pulses, sici and icf were tested
with stronger cs2 and cs10 to compensate for the effects of cs100. the rmt was determined in the presence of cs100, and the 
intensities of cs2 and cs10 were adjusted to be 80% of the conditioned motor threshold in thre presence of cs100. 

experiment 4: effects of variations in lici intensity: the effects of different strength cs100 stimuli were tested. the effects of
adding a cs2 pulse on lici was examined by comparing a test MEP generated by a single pulse to one generated by a cs2 pulse, the 
effects of different strength cs100 on lici and subsequent sici and icf were also tested. 

experiment5: effects of weak LICI within the silent period: 
with cs100 at 1.1mt, cs2 and test pulses were delivered around the end of the silent period. since the cortical neurons may have
increased excitability at the end of the silent period, an additional experiment was performed to examine the effects of weak lici
within the silent period. 

experiment 6: silent period duration: the duration of the silent period following a single stimuli at 1.1, 1.3, and 1.5mt and a 
strength of 1mv were measured. 

data analysis: peak to peak MEP amplitude for each trial was measured offline. inhibition was a ratio between conditioned and
unconditioned <1, and facilitation >1. 
statistical analyis: anova, and linear regression (pearson). 

results: 
experiment 1: the test stimulus strength was varied from 0.2-4mV. for SICI, there was only slight inhibition for small test meps of
0.2mv, and the inhibition increased up to 1mv, after which there was a pleateau, the effect of test stimulus strength on Sici did
not reach significance. the effect of test stimulus intensity of icf was also not significant. in contrast, lici decreased with 
higher test stimulus intensities, with a significant decrease in LICI at higher test stimuli. 

experiment 2: the average MEP amplitude for all subjects was 1.3mV for the 1mV test stimulus alone, and 2.6mV for the 1mVcs100 test
stimulus alone. with cs100 at 1mv intensity and the test stimulus at 1mvcs100, the mep amplitude was 1.3mv, thus the mep amplitude
to blah. compared to test stimulus alone, a preceding cs2 or cs100 stimulus inhibited the response, however in the presence of cs100,
cs2 did not inhibit the response. 

discussion:
do different cell populations mediate the two inhibitory phenomena? if so, what are their interactions? 
different cell populations mediate sici and lici: changes in the strength of the test stimulus had markedly different effects on 
sici and lici, and there was no correlation between the extent of sici and lici, which suggests that different cell populations 
mediate sici and lici. since lici was greatest for low-intensity test stimuli, neurons with the lowest threshold are more sensitive
to lici than those with higher threshold, and increasing the test stimulus intensity may recruit neurons that are less excitable or
spatially further away from from the center of TMS activation. these neurons may be less sensitive to LICI. 




















