in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy of gaba: a methodological review: 
introduction: MRS is a powerful methodology allowing for the direct detection of endogenous metabolites in the human body
non-invasively and in-vivo. although historically most often applied within a clinical context, it is increasingly used to study
the healthy brain. although the principal inhibitory transmitter in the brain (GABA) is only present at millimolar levels, it is
possible to measure GABA with MRS, by tailoring the sequence to measure gaba specifically. although the majority of cortical
neurons are glutamatergic, approximately 1/6 are gabergic, and there is a wide interest in studying the role of inhibitory processes
in normal brain function and pathology/disease. both GABA receptors and transporters have been well characterized, and associated
genes have been been implicated by genetic studies of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. two main subtypes of GABA receptor,
gabaa and gabab mediate the synaptic effects of gaba, and synaptic gaba is rapidly removed by high affinity gaba transporters. 
GABA is produced from glutamate by glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). amoung a wide variety of methods for studying gaba and
gabaergic processes, the only technique that allows the direct, non-invasive detection of endogenous gaba in vivo in the brain is
mrs. 

methodological summary: 
in-vivo 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy: magnetic resonance spectroscopy is the in vivo application of nuclear magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy, and is implemented on MRI scanners. 1H MRS detects radiofrequency signals that arise from hydrogen nuclear
spins within tissue metabolites, and these signals have chemically specific frequencies, determined by the chemical environment of
the hydrogen spins. thus, MRS signals are separated in the MR spectrum along chemical lines, in what is known as the chemical
shift dimension. some of the most prominent chemical shifts in human occipital lobe are n-acetyl asparate, creatine, and cholate
containing compounds. the spectrum is a plot of the signal intensity (roughly proportional to the metabolite concentration) against
chemical shift. chemical shift is reported in field-independent units, or ppm (parts per million of the proton frequency). NAA for
example always gives a signal at 2.0 ppm, even though signals are acquired at close to 64Mhz or 128Mhz at 3t. MRS can be done by
acquiring signals within a certain voxel, or by a hybrid MRS and imaging experiment, known as MRSI or CSI (chemical shift 
imaging). single voxel imaging is usually done using either the point-RE-solved-spectroscopy (PRESS) or stimulated echo acquisition
mode (STEAM). 
since it is well known which metabolites are in the brain, the MR spectrum from a given region can be analysed as a linear 
combination of basis spectra, using tools such as the LCM model, in order to measure metabolite concentrations. the success of this
type of analyis is heavily affected by the quality of data - the SNR increases linearly with the size of the voxel, and the square
root of the acquisition time, and the width of the signals (And thus their separability form other signals) depends on the 
homogeneity of the magnetic field within the acquisition volume. a typical single voxel measurement might be made from a 8cm^3 
voxel in 5 minutes. 
the spectrum in figure 1a exhibits a fundamental problem of in vivo H MRS, especially as applied to GABA - the dispersion of the
signals along the chemical shift axis is limited in comparison with the line width of the signals, even with good shimming. 
therefore, signals from different metabolites often overlap, and signals from more abundant metabolites often obscure those from 
less abundant metabolites, such as gaba. 

coupling in MRS: one common feature of the MR spectrum is the appearance of multiplets, signals associated with a single hydrogen
environment that are split into a number of sub-peaks, this phenomenon arises because of spin-spin coupling or j-coupling,
whereby a spin is affected by adjacent spins within a molecule. the splittings due to coupling resultin signals that have a lower
peak intensity and a broader footprint along the chemical shift axis, both of which make coupled species such as gaba and 
glutamate harder to detect and quantify. 

mrs of gaba: GABA is present in the human brain a concentration of about 1mM, which is an order of magnitude lower than some of the
more concentrated metabolites and 40,000 times less than water. the gaba spectrum is composed of 3 multiplets which correspond to
the three methylene groups in the molecule. these signals are overlapped by more intense signals arising from more abundant 
metabolites, NAA at 2ppm, Cr at 3ppm, and glutamate/glutamine at 2.3ppm. at field strengths of 3T and below, differentiation of
these compounds becomes difficult. 
there are three possible approaches to reducing signal overlap in order to resolve gaba signals. it is possible to reduce the 
information content of the spectrum by performing spectral editing methods. alternatively, overlap can be mitigated by spreading
signals out into a second frequency dimension using 2d MRS. the third approach is to move to higher field strength.

edited detection of GABA: although the coupling between gaba spins results in wider signals with lower intensities, hindering
detection, it can also be taken advantage of to separate gaba signals from the rest of the spectrum. the GABA signal at 3ppm 
is coupled to the signal at 1.9ppm, therefore it is possible to separate the signals on this basis. a frequency selective pulse 
which only directly affects signals close to 1.9ppm can be added to the MRS experiment. this will have an indirect effect on 
GABA signals at 3ppm, because they are coupled to the GABA spins at 1.9ppm, while it will have no effect on other signals at
3ppm. if two experiments are performed, with and without this pulse, the subtraction of the two will give a spectrum that only 
contains those signals affected by the pulse. this is referred to as J-difference editing, and is use	d by the first proposed
method for detecting GABA and also by the most commonly used technique today, MEGA-PRESS. one disadvantage of such j-difference
methods is the reliance on subtraction to remove strong overlapping signals from the spectrum. any instability in the experiment,
whether caused by instrumental factors or subject movement, will result in subtraction artifacts that can obscure the intended 
edited GABA signals. 

two-dimensional MRS: 

high-field MRS: a growing number of sites have installed 7T scanners, which are likely to be used to quantify gaba in the future.
one advantage of high field MRI is a tightening of the multiplets from the metabolites, 








