gamma and the coordination of spiking in V1
summary: gamma components of the local field potential are elevated during cognitive and perceptual processes. it
has been suggested that gamma power indicates the strength of neuronal population synchrony, which influences the
relaying of signals between cortical areas. however, the relationship between coordinated spiking activity and gamma
remains unclear, and the influence on corticocortical signaling largely untested. these issues were investigated
by recording from areas in v1 and v2 of anesthetized monkeys. they found that visual stimuli which induce a strong
coherent gamma rhythm result in enhanced pairwise and higher order V1 synchrony. this is associated with stronger 
coupling of v1-v2 spiking activity, in a retinotopicall specific manner. coupling is more strongly related to the
gamma modulation of V1 firing than to the downstream V2 rhythm. these results show that elevated gamma power is 
associated with stronger coordination of spiking activity both within and between cortical areas. 
introduction: gamma band activity has been proposed to be an important coding mechanism in the brain. one suggestion
posits that gamma band spiking activity links the distributed representation of sensory stimulation with a cortical
area. under this view, the coordination of ensemble spiking activity in the gamma band leads to more effective drive
to downstream networks. a related but distinct proposal is that gamma routes signals between neuronal populations,
particularly those in distinct cortical areas. the communication through coherence proposal suggests that the 
efficacy of synaptic input to a target area can be modulated by its timing relative to the phase of the local gamma
cycle, so efficacy should be maximal for inputs arriving at a gamma phase when inhibition is weakest relative to
excitation in the target area. 
early studies in the visual cortex focused on spiking activity and provided evidence both for and against the 
modulation of spiking activity by the gamma rhythm. recent studies have used gamma power in the LFP and the coupling
between the LFP and spiking activity as a potentially more sensitive measure of shared, weak fluctuations in a 
distributed neuronal population. however, how altered LFP measurements reflect the temporal coordination of spiking
responses in a distributed neuronal population remains unclear. because only a small fraction of LFP power is in 
the gamma band, altered gamma power or LFP-spike coupling may not indicate a substantial change in spike-timing
coordination. further, neurons in a distributed population may have different phase relationships to gamma or be 
modulated in different epochs, reducing ensemble coordination. since spikes relay signals between networks, it is 
necessary to understand how LFP-based measurements are related to the coordination of spiking activity in a 
distributed neuronal ensemble. a second issue is whether gamma coordination can be significant enough to to affect
the relaying of signals to distant networks. cortical recordings have shown conditions under which interareal 
field-field or spike-field coordination is elevated, but how this is reflected in the coordination of population 
spiking responses in distinct cortical areas is largely unknown, as is the relative importance of gamma fluctuations
in the source and target areas. 


discussion: spiking activity was more coordinated on trials with higher gamma power, although no differences in 
rate were apparent. 