how to make great landing pages with crazy high conversions 
a landing page is a page a visitor arrives at after clicking your ad. specific landing pages tailored to different offers are essential for driving conversions
with targeted messages that match each user's needs. 

before you build a landing page, ask yourself: 
1) what is the goal? in an ideal world what would users do upon visiting your page? buy, fill form, sign up for newsletter, download ebook?
	you want to convert the user in a phone call lasting 3 minutes or more. you want them to click the call now button and then press 1 and stay on the line
	for more than 3 minutes. 

2) who am i competing against? how are they succeeding, and how can i copy that success? 

3) who is my audience? what are their hopes, dreams, and aspirations? the better you understand them, the more you can cater to them, get in their head hannibal
lecter style.
	drug/alcohol addicts, or close friends/family of drug and alcohol addicts. 

4) how did they get to my landing page (tied to 3). you want a tailored landing page for each ad group, try with a custom landing page for each campaign. 
	through your ad - make sure your landing page matches your ad text. 

5) short, sweet, and uncluttered - all the necessary info, but not enough to drive away the viewer. provide essential info to interest user, nothing more
	a few pictures and bullet point text 

6) provide high quality content that inspires confidence - don't be cheap with content, provide rich, useful, relevant content. inspire trust. 

7) have all roads lead to rome - funnel users down a desired pathway, use links sparingly. 

8) make it easy to convert - make the conversion as attractive as possible. 

9) have a flawless design - answer all questions without introducing new ones, navigation obvious and simple, answer all questions, users should be able to convert
in one click.

10) have a clear call to action - tell your users exactly what you want them to do in big, bold text. 

11) create eye-catching headlines. use the main headline to confirm the offer, and a sub-heading for more explanation or value proposition. 

12) contain engaging copy: use specific hypnotic words such as "you, imagine, because" to get the user visualizing your product and increase desire. 

13) make it about the visitor - they are out for #1, showcase what you can do for them and how you can improve their lives.

14) make use of video when appropriate.

15) have an awesome offer, make sure it is a good product and something people actually desire. 

16) be easy to scan at a quick glance - you have up to 8 seconds to keep people interested in your page. value proposition needs to be quick and convincing. 
make it easy to scan by highlighting your main point in the headline, and using bullet points and sub-headings for additional info. 

17) contain relevant, quality images - bright eye-catching images for a better user experience and more attractive page

18) look gorgeous and act classy - simply be better than the opposition

19) match the ad text, and ensure the users they are on the right path. 

20) only request the information you need (in forms, etc). 

21) use color to your advantage

22) have clickable share buttons

23) show raving testimonials

24) be mobile friendly

25) follow up with thank you page

26) broadcast trust signals

27) as fast as ferraris

28) many rounds of a/b testing

29) turn on conversion tracking 

recap - basically, a simple, clear landing page that gets your point across as quickly and fast as possible all the while funnelling them into the call to action
grab their attention - use it to hit them with pertinent facts - drive them to call to action. 