localized high resolution NMR spectroscopy using stimulated echoes: initial applications in-vivo
water suppressed localized nmr spectroscopy using stimulated echoes has been succesfully applied in vivo to detect metabolites. 
the STEAM spectroscopy sequence allows single step localization by exciting three intersecting slices. water supression is achieved
by preceding chemical shift selective (CHESS) pulses. high resolution (0.05ppm) proton NMR spectra of healthy volunteers have been 
obtained on a conventional 1.5T siemans MRI system. volumes of interest of 4x4x4cm were localised in the occipital region, and
spectra were recorded within measuring times from 1 min to 20 min. resonance assignments include aspartate, n-acetyl aspartate, 
glutamine, gaba, glutamate, asparate, creatine and phosophocreatine, choline containing compounds, taurine, and inositols. cerebral
lactate was found to be at a maximum concentration of 0.5mM when assumying n-acetyl aspartate in white matter to be 6mM. 

introduction: there is still great hope for biochemical tissue characterization in-vivo, although phosphorous NMR allowed insight into
the metabolism of high energy phosphates in-vivo, and contributed to the understanding of some muscle diseases, its applications often
suffer from the limited localization capabilites of surface coils, topical magnetic resonance or ISIS techniques in combination with
short repetition times. furthermore, even for large VOI the acquisition of a single ISIS-localized phosophorous spectrum requires 
times up to 30minutes. proton NMR spectroscopy bears the possiblity of obtaining access to a much larger number of metabolites. 
detailed biochemical information can be obtained not only on the energy metabolism (ie, lactate production), but also on free amino 
acids, fatty acids, and neurotransmitters. moreover, the STEAM sequence is available which provides both spatial localization and
water suppression with only 4 90deg RF pulses. this paper describes the implementation of a STEAM NMR spectroscopy sequence on 
conventional 1.5T MRI scanner. the experimental procedures are outlined in detail, along with the first results on a live human brain.

technical aspects:
stimulated echo (STEAM) spectroscopy: figure 1 shows the schematic for a stimulated echo rf and magnetic gradient pulse sequence used
for water suppressed localized proton NMR spectroscopy on a standard 1.5T whole body MRI system. three 90deg slice selection RF pulses
with a bandwidth of 3400Hz result in 4cm slices. for a chemical shift range of 5ppm, or 320Hz at 1.5T, the applied bandwidth 
corresponds to a chemical shift uncertainty in the position of the voi of less than 4mm. 

magnetic field gradient switches: the actual gradient waveforms were optimized according to three conditions: 1) generation of a 
stimulated echo, 2) dephasing of unwanted echo responses and 3) reduction of signal attenuation due to motion and diffusion. 
the unambiguous generation of a stimulated echo relies on the presence of dephased transverse magnetization before the application of
a second rf pulse. in steam imaging, dephasing is achieved by application of the read gradient between the first and second RF pulses.
in spectroscopy versions, dephasing in the first interval is achieved by proper switching of the slice-selective gradient, however if
the third slice selection gradient is refocused after the third rf pulse rather than before the second rf pulse, the spectrum obtained
from the stimulated echo signal would exhibit a sinusoidal amplitude modulation depending on the echo time TE, resonance offsets, 
and phase angle of the RF pulses. 
second, the gradient waveforms selected for STEAM spectroscopy ensure proper dephasing of unwanted echoes by the application of gradients
during tm. 