main menu
buttons
button composite
you want to make it as modular as possible, and also have cool things like labels and such that you can create and put on the button

the basic button constructor:
	Button(size,color,location,outline color,background)
	Button composite(size,n_x,n_y,...)
the button draws itself, (drawself)

how to check for intersections with the tap? right now, you have a main menu, a button composite, and a button. 
one option is to iterate over all "active" button composites, and check them one by one - 

main components of the mainmenu app: 

create new profile
create new life category
	numerical, timed, etc 
create a drawing tool pad - color and shapes 
sketch pad - choose from 3 primary colors (Red, green, blue)
have it automatically update the new score based on the old (++, etc) 

keys: buzzwords in the title 
buzzwords: life sketchpad - you sketch a label for each different activity, and it is added to your activity bar. 

next: get the keyboard working, so the player can create a new user. 
create load user screen
get buttons working

goal is to have this done by next weekend, with the in-app purchases implemented as well.
then, time to start working on the game in earnest. (re-do the physics engine collisions first, then implement the maps)
figure out how to scroll using a drag

buck with the backspace - string is modifiable when you return from exiting, but not when you return from a previous screen
problem - when you switch views, it fucks up the keyboard. why?  WHY?

tonight: add the users (remove the dummy accounts) 
add the message display at the top (synchronization stuff - copy from other project)
add the title to the top of all the menus (1) done
add the text box, in place of the title menu done
add the centered text on the buttons (done)
add the scroll bar, and the static button size 

once you have this done (hopefully by the weekend, release it on two other app stores (amazon and the other), then start to work on
an actual game. 

will have to redo a bunch of stuff - setContentView sucks balls and doesn't work with the keyboard. not recommended. FAIL. 
what can you do instead? 
how to use the buttons without switching the view?


use the button composite somehow, ie, switch between active button composites (change the title to be part of the composite) 
now, re-do the top label (for each button composite), and make the buttons for the loading and new item menus

planning the user interface:
once you create a user, what do you do next - the user has plenty of activities, each activity has its own screen, and thats basically
the app
so, you need to just have an activity selection screen for each user

next - add another user. 

saving users - finish this by tonight, and you should be able to work on it without internet for a while 
(finished by sunday?) you want the basics finished by sunday. 
loading and saving - save a list of all user accounts, and load the list first. then, load all accounts on the list. 
how to work this? first, check for the file. if the file doesn't exist, create it. then, overwrite it in following sequences. 

saving users seems to be mostly working, just need to delete the extra user added each time you restart. 
	saving is done - what next? the x-s on the button - have a sub-button search for each button, when the overall button is 
	pressed, the sub-button search gets triggered, and then either the major button or the x gets triggered. 
	keep this inside the button itself, so you don't have to mess around with searching up other buttons or masking them/w.e. 
or, have a more generic overlay option, that you can select from, that somehow masks the rest of the buttons while it is active. 

have a generic user that you define a bunch of historical data for (example_user), and use them in the tutorial/readme
a drawing pad, that you can design a custom icon with (3 colors, 200x200 pixels or whatever)  
charting options: bar chart, goals, etc. (goal surpassed)
keep in mind the eventual goal of this is to re-use the code as the main menu for a game. 

the x button - you want to remove stuff from the menu using the x-button.
check within the button first, to see if the x was pressed. (done)
now, need to set the close button to be optional, and pop up the confirmation button when its pressed. (done)
for the confirmation screen, do you want to pop up a whole new menu? might as well, because its simpler

got user deletion and saving working, now, just need to add the activity screen, charts, and timed activity, and you'll be done!
need to add button subtexts, max text sizes, and change the user name to something else like activityGroup or something	

activities:
first, switch to the activity screen using load user or create new user. 
come up with a new name, instead of "user", maybe "activity group", 
create the test user, many activities (and side bar also). 
a different user activity object for each user? how to handle the user screens? 
also, what kind of activities will you have? 
1) timed activity, 2) simple activity (2+ sets) 
need an edit button as well



















