the mechanism of interaction between focused ultrasound and microbubbles in blood-brain barrier opening in mices
abstract: the activation of bubbles by an acoustic field has been shown to temporarily open the BBB, but the trigger cause
responsible for the physiological effects involved in the process of BBB opening remains unknown. here, the physical 
mechanism of the FUS induced opening of BBB with monodispersed microbubbles is identified. 67 mice were injected 
intravenously with bubbles of 1-2, 4-5, or 6-8 um diameter and a concentration of 10^7 bubles/ml. the right hippocampus
of each mouse was then sonicated using focused ultrasound (1.5Mhz frequency, 100 cycle pulse length, 10Hz repetition 
frequency, 1min duration). peak rarefecation pressures of 0.15, 0.3, 0.45, or 0.6 MPa were applied to identify the threshold
of BBB opening and inertial cavitation (IC). the results suggest that the BBB opens with nonlinear bubble oscillation when
the bubble diameter is similar to the capillary diameter, and with inertial cavitation when it is not. the bubble may thus
have to be in contact with the capillary wall to induce BBB opening without IC. BBB opening was shown capable of being
induced safely with nonlinear bubble oscillation at the pressure threshold and its volume was highly dependent on both the
acoustic pressure and bubble diameter. 

introduction: the blood brain barrier is well known for being the main obstacle to delivering drugs into the brain 
parenchyma. to date, the combination of FUS and microbubble injection has been shown to be the most promising approach 
to achieving local BBB opening without damaging tissue. BBB opening has been achieved in animals including mice, rabbits,
pigs, rats, and monkeys. different acoustic parameters have been studied. pulse length can influence the threshold of BBB
opening, but no significant difference could be found among different pulse repetition frequencies (PRF) or microbubble
concentrations. the spatial deposition pattern of molecules of distinct molecular weights delivered through the BBB has also
been established to assess the extent of BBB opening. 
regarding the cellular mechanism of FUS induced BBB opening, increasing vesicular transport, channel formation, and tight 
junction opening were all reported in capillaries after sonication. it has been shown the permeability of endothelial cells
is also increased by ultrasound activated microbubbles. the permeability after BBB opening was also studied using DCE-MRI
and found to increase by at least 100-fold. during sonication, vascoconstriction was noted, followed by BBB opening, which
sheds light into how the ultrasound activated microbubbles affect brain microvasculature. however, the entire sequence of 
events and physical mechanism of the microbubble interaction with ultrasound and subsequent cell impact during BBB opening
remains to be established. 
in order to study the physical effects responsible for BBB opening, a passive cavitation detector can be used to acquire
the acoustic response stemming from the MB and tissue interaction during BBB opening. it has been shown that the BBB could 
be opened by FUS without inertial cavitation at a peak negative pressure of 0.29 MPa after craniotomy in rabbits. previous
studies by the group reported in vivo transcranial cavitation detection in mice, and provide evidence that BBB opening 
could be achieved in absence of inertial cavitation, at 0.3MPa. microbubble kinetics were also investigated in the rabbit
using an ultrasound linear array, and the blood flow and PRF were found the affect the bubble behavior during BBB opening.
however, until now most studies used commerical microbubbles, which are typically polydispersed, as the agent for inducing
BBB opening. thus, it is difficult to determine the role of microbubble properties in BBB opening. 
the bubble diameter is inversely proportional to the resonance frequency, when all other bubble parameters remain the same.
for a bubble constrained in a vessel, regardless of the shell property, the resonance frequency determines when the bubble
size decreases. for example, when the bubble is constrained in a compliant, 10um diameter vessel its resonance frequency
at a diameter of 2,4,6,and 8um is 3.92, 1.93, 1.41 and 1.26 Mhz respectively. therefore, the FUS frequency in this study
(1.5Mhz) is close to the resonant frequency of 4-5um bubbles. high speed camera findings have also indicated that the 
pressure threshold of bubble fragmentation increases with bubble size. recently, monodispersed microbubbles were shown as
an important factor in high frequency ultrasound imaging. it has also been shown that the pressure threshold of BBB opening
is bubble size dependent. the threshold of 1-2um microbubbles was higher than that of 4-5um microbubbles, which underlined
the importance of the microbubble role in BBB opening. therefore, the physical mechanism of FUS induced BBB opening may also
be bubble size dependent so understanding the role of different microbubble sizes is very important to unveil the physical
mechanism of BBB opening. 
the objective of the study therefore was to unveil the physical effects of different microbubble sizes responsible for FUS
induced BBB opening. microbubbles were isolated into 1-2, 4-5, and 6-8um diameter ranges, and the acoustic responses of 
different sized microbubbles were transcranially detected during BBB opening. the threshold of BBB opening and BBB opening
volume at different microbubble sizes was determined by MRI. histological analyis was also performed for damage assessment.

materials and methods:  blah blah

results: as a result of the deposition of the MRI contrast agent induced by BBB opening, the MR images indicate that the 
threshold of BBB opening is 0.45MPa for 1-2um bubbles, 0.3MPa for the 4-5 and 6-8 um bubbles. the corresponding spectrogram
shows that only lower harmonics are detected at 0.15MPa, and higher harmonics (up to 8th) can be detected at 0.3MPa. however
the broadband response (ie, inertial cavitation) occurs at 0.45 and 0.6MPa for all microbubbles used in this study. 
therefore, BBB opening can be induced by nonlinear oscillation (ie, with harmonics but without broadband emissions) at
4-5 and 6-8 um diameter, but not 1-2um diameter bubbles at 1.5Mhz frequency. the inertial cavitation dose, bbb opening 
volume, and their correlation at different bubble diameters are shown. the icd at 0.45 and 0.6 MPa is statistically higher
than at 0.3 and 0.15Mpa, for all bubble sizes, which confirms that the threshold of inertial cavitation for BBB opening
is 0.45mpa, which shows that the inertial cavitation dose is also bubble size dependent. 

discussion: the objective of the study was to investigate the physical effects of the systematically circulating 
microbubbles on the FUS-induced BBB opening. the pressure threshold of BBB opening, determined by MRI contrast enhancement,
was 0.45MPa for the 1-2um and 0.3MPa for the 4-5 and 6-8um bubbles. however, the broadband response occured at 0.45MPa for
all microbubble sizes. the uncorrelated threshold between BBB opening and inertial cavitation implied that the physical
effects responsible for BBB opening may be bubble-size dependent. inertial cavitation may be necessary for BBB opening with
smaller diameter (1-2um) but not larger diameter (4-5 and 6-8um) microbubbles. 
for larger diameter microbubbles (4-5 and 6-8um), at 0.45 and 0.6MPa, with the occurence of inertial cavitation, both the 
volume and shape of the contrast enhancement region was different from the case at 0.3MPa. in the sagittal images, the shape
of the contrast enhancement region at 0.45 and 0.6MPa with 4-5 and 6-8um microbubbles indicated enhanced shielding effects 
induced by the bubbles and inertial cavitation occurence. however, at 0.3 MPa without inertial cavitation occurence, the 
contrast enhancement region, which covered the hippocampal formation, was more homogenous and similar in shape and 
geometry to the -6dB focal spot of the FUS beam. 
the capillary diameter in the murine brain ranges from 4-8um, which is 2-8 times larger than the 1-2um diameter bubbles. 
it has been shown that the microbubble will be fragmented when the radius expands to higher than three times the initial 
radius at rest. however, the ratio of expansion for the larger microbubbles is smaller, as compared to the smaller 
microbubbles, for it to come into contact with the capillary wall. bbb opening may thus be induced through nonlinear 
oscillation only, in the case of larger bubbles. 
it has been shown that the active vesicular transport is more pronounced in arterioles than in capillaries, and venules 
after BBB opening, providing evidence that opening is not restricted to the capillaries. as the size of the arterioles is
10-20um, bubble expansion may not be the factor inducing BBB opening in the arterioles. according to high speed 
photomicrography, localized vessel invagination was observed when the bubble contacted the vessel wall. vasoconstriction 
may also be induced by bubble aggregation caused by a secondary radiation force. therefore, larger bubbles may induce 
vasoconstriction with a higher probability than smaller bubbles. after vasoconstriction is induced by bubble aggregation,
the shear stress surrounding the microbubble may be high enough to enhance the permeability of endothelial cells, or to 
relax the tight junctions. therefore, the tensile strength of the tight junctions and shear stress amplitude will be 
considered in future investigations to determine the physiological effects of FUS-induced BBB opening. 
the spectrogram used in this study clearly elucidated the onset and duration of inertial cavitation within the first pulse. 
here, the inertial cavitation occured at the beginning of sonication. at the highest pressure 0.6Mpa, the broadband response
corresponding to the first pulse lasted throughout the entire duration of the pulse length at all bubble sizes, indicating
that the highest pressure may fragment the microbubbles to smaller bubbles that serve as cavitation nuclei. in the case of
0.15 and 0.3 MPa at all bubble sizes, only harmonics without broadband emissions were detected. however, the BBB opened at
0.3MPa only in the 4-5 and 6-8um cases. despite the fact that harmonics up to the eighth could be detected by PCD, no BBB
opening was induced at 0.3MPa with the 1-2um bubbles. therefore, the nolinear oscillation of smaller bubbles would not 
induce BBB opening. the effects to the vasculature and the acoustic emission detection were different at different bubble
sizes. 
similar to the threshold of BBB opening, the inertial cavitation dose and bbb opening volumes were also bubble size 
dependent. because of the difference in the scattering cross section, the acoustic emissions increased with bubble size. 
once the bubble rupture occured, larger bubbles would also induce larger BBB opening volumes. therefore, a good correlation 
between inertial cavitation dose and the bbb opening volume was found. 
according to histological analysis at the bbb opening threshold, the bbb opening can be induced without rbc extravasation
or neuronal damage. despite the fact that the inertial cavitation occured at 0.45MPa with the 1-2um diameter bubbles, a 
small opening volume was induced without any damage, which is consistent with the existing sonoporation literature. in this
study, intertial cavitation did not induce cell death, but was enough to change the permeability of the endothelial cells
and rupture tight junctions.
standing waves might be generated within a pulse length of 100 cycles. however, based on the spectrograms no significant
change could be observed during the 100 cycle sonication. also, it has been shown that standing waves are not necessary
in the BBB opening mechanism. 
as the BBB was not opened at 0.15Mpa, at all bubble sizes, and the diffusion of gas from the microbubble core will be
enhanced in the presence of ultrasound, the discrepancy of the gas volume should not have an effect on the results 
presented. 

conclusions: the physical mechanism of BBB opening at different bubble sizes was investigated. inertial cavitation was found
to be required for smaller bubbles to induce BBB opening. however, the interaction between the larger bubbles and the FUS
beam could induce the BBB opening through nonlinear oscillation, without inertial cavitation. no significant damage was 
detected at the BBB opening threshold, at all bubble sizes. the BBB opening threshold, ICD, and BBB opening volume were 
found to be bubble size dependent, therefore, larger (6-8um) bubbles and lower pressures (0.2-.3MPa) were determined to be
safe and consistent in their associated BBB opening. 


























