efficient gaba editing at 3t without macromolecule contamination: mega special
abstract: the MEGA PRESS technique is one of the most common ways to quantify GABA within the human brain. however, accurate 
quantification of GABA using megapress is complicated by spectral co-editing of macromolecular resonances. this article proposes
a new pulse sequence enabling gaba editing while removing macromolecular contamination. this sequence combines the mega editing
scheme with the special localization technique. simulations and phantom experiments indicate a superior performance to mega-press,
and in-vivo results demonstrate effective removal of macromolecular contamination. in a study of the occipital lobe of 5 healthy
volunteers, the macromolecule corrected GABA/creatine ratio was found to be 0.093 +/- 0.007, whereas prior to macromolecule 
correction it was found to be 0.173 +/- 0.013. 

introduction: gaba is the primary inhibitory nt in the human brain, and its function is regulation of neuronal activity. 
unambiguous in-vivo detection and quantification of gaba by conventional 1h spectroscopy is difficult, because of large overlapping
metabolite resonances. a variety of spectral editing techniques have been developed to enable the selective observation of GABA
by partial or full cancellation of overlapping resonances, amoung the most commonly used is the MEGA PRESS technique, which 
combines mega editing with PRESS localization to achieve localised observation of the C4 GABA methylene resonance at 3ppm. 
although favored for its simplicity and ease of use, MEGA PRESS has a few well known drawbacks that limit its ability to resolve
GABA accurately. the first is the problem of macromolecule co-editing, which results in significant contamination from macromolecules
in the edit gaba signal at 3ppm. this co-editing arises as a result of an MM resonance at 3ppm, which is coupled to an mm resonance
at 1.7ppm, close in frequency to the c3 gaba resonance at 1.7ppm, where the gaba editing is applied. several methods have been
proposed to separate the mm contribution from the edited spectrum, to improve the accuracy of GABA quantification. one method
involves the acquisition of a metabolite nulled spectrum to enable measurement of the mm contribution, which can then be subtracted
from the total gaba edited + mm spectrum. this is unsuitable in practice because it doubles scan time, and metabolite nulled spectra
are sensitive to the T1 relaxation rates of both mm and metabolites. a second method for mm correction known as the henry method
involves careful selection of the editing pulse frequency such that mm are not co-edited by the spectrum. specifically, rather
than applying the editing pulse in a conventional on/off fashion, the editing pulse is applied symmetrically about mm1.7 in both
even and odd acquisitions. as a result of this symmetry, the mm1.7 resonance is equally affected in both the edit on and edit off
cases, and mm co-editing is inhibited. this approach is favored because it does not require additional scans and is insensitive
to changes in t1 of mm or metabolites. the henry method is more difficult to use at 3t, however, due to the reduced spectral 
dispersion at lower field strengths. a second limitation of megapress is that, as a result of the chemical shift displacement
of the slice selective localization pulses in the PRESS sequence, the scalar evolution of the c4-gaba multiplet is highly 
spatially dependent. this article presents a new pulse sequence for GABA editing at 3t, combining the conventional MEGA editing
scheme with the SPECIAL localization scheme. the sequence contains longer, more frequency selective editing pulses than megapress,
enabling the use of the henry method to remove mm contamination when sufficiently narrow-bandwidth editing pulses could not be
obtained. the use of special spatial localization is also expected to reduce intravoxel spatial variations in the edited GABA 
signal, as the echo time contains one less refocusing pulse than in press localization. 
methods: 
background: when using the henry method at 3t, the frequency separation between the c3-gaba resonance (1.9ppm) and the edit-off
pulse (1.5ppm) is approximately 51Hz. appropriate difference editing requires that c3-gaba resonance is unaffected by the edit-off
pulse, therefore spins at a distance of 51Hz from the center of the editing band should experience less than 1% inversion and
the editing pulse inversion profiles should have a half-width at 1% maximum of less than 51Hz. 
for GABA editing, the MEGA PRESS sequence is normally implemented with a te of 68ms, corresponding to approximately one half-cycle
of scalar evolution of the c4-gaba multiplet (J ~ 7Hz). during te, two slice selective refocusing pulses and two editing pulses
must be applied. as a result, the approximate duration of each editing pulse is limited to between 14 and 20ms. 
























