modeling tracer kinetics in Dynamic Gd-DTPA MR imaging
three major models (From tofts, larsson, and brix) for collecting and analyzing DCE-MRI Gd-DTPA data are examined. all models use compartments
representing the blood plasma and the abnormal EES, and they are not intercompatible. all measure combinations of three parameters:
1) the influx volume transfer constant, or permeability surface area product per unit volume of tissue between plasma and EES, 
2) ve the volume of EES space per unit volume of tissue (0<ve<1)
3) kep the efflux rate constant which is the ratio of the first two parameters (k/ve).
kep is the simplest to measure, requiring only signal linearity with Gd tracer concentration or, alternatively a measure of T1 before 
injection of Gd. To measure the physiologic parameters k and ve, separate requires knowledge of T10, and of the tissue relaxivity R1.

introduction:
there is increasing use of DCE-MRI to characterize abnormal capillary leakage, but there is a confusing plethora of approaches that differ 
in three major ways: 
1) the data collection procedure varies (eg is plasma concentration measured or not, is a bolus or infusion injection used, what MRI sequence
is used?)
2) both the presentation of theoretical models and which parameters are actually extracted vary. many models are heuristic, with no 
relationship to underlying physiology. most meaningful models give parameters that are either equivalent to a) the influx volume transfer
constant k or permeability surface area product per unit volume, and b) the ees or c) their ratio the efflux rate constan kep. 
3) the names and symbols used to describe these parameters vary, 

the aim of the review is to reconcile the various models and to show the relationship if any to physiological variables. the review focuses
on Gd-DTPA tracer, but the kinetic principles can be applied to other tracers, provided an appropriate plasma curve Cp(t) is used. 
the mixing phase, during which the injected bolus is mixed into the blood plasma and other closely couple compartments lasts up to 2 minutes.
bolus tracking during this phase has been used to measure blood volume, using either T2* or T1 weighted sequences, but this phase cannot be
described properly using compartmental analysis, and is so not considered in this review. however, if the local AIF (plasma concentration)
can be measured, it may be possible to characterize leaking into the surrounding tissue during this early phase. 

early models: 
early work in tracer kinetics before the advent of non-invasive in-vivo imaging, was carried out by physiologists in animals using radioactive
tracers that were then killed to measure the tissue concentration in the areas of interest. the application of diffusion theory to the 
transport of tracers across a capillary wall, and the knowledge that the flux (flow rate) is proportional to the concentration gradient
led to the notion of a permeability constant, defined as the flux mmol/sec per unit concentration difference and per unit area of 
semi-permeable membrane: flow of tracer = P*S*deltaC*Mt, where S is the area of the membrane per unit mass of tissue, deltaC is the 
concentration difference across the membrane, and Mt is the mass of the tissue concerned. the units of P are cm/sec, and since S is typically
unknown physiologists the product of permeability and surface area per unit mass of tissue or the PS product. in early studies, the PS 
product was found by injecting tracer into the arterial blood supply using an infusion or bolus. the proportion of tracer that left the 
bloodstream and entered the tissue in one pass of blood through the capillary bed was called the extraction fraction E and is related to PS 
by E = 1 - e^(-PS/F), where F is the capillary blood flow per unit mass of tissue, and backflux into the capillary was ignored. if the 
permeability is high enough to extract most of the tracer in one pass, then the extraction fraction is close to unity, and PS cannot be 
determined (since transport across the membrane is then flow limited and independent of PS). the venous concentration is then considerably
less than the arterial concentration, and the concept of a well mixed plasma compartment does not apply. on the other hand, if extraction is
low, the flow is sufficient to replace tracer lost by transport through the capillary wall, and the blood plasma compartment has a well 
defined concentration, and PS is equal to EF. 
in 1978 a two-compartment model was published for the distribution of carbon 14 (14C) labeled compounds of low molecular weight between the
plasma and the brain in rats after a bolus injection. the plasma concentration Cp was represented as the sum of n decaying exponentials
(typically three) which were determined from blood samples Cp(t) = sum(t=1:n)[Ai*e^(-mi*t)]. the tracer uptake in the EES in unit mass of
tissue is dCt/dt = PS*rho*(Cp - Ct/Ve), where Ct is the tissue concentration, rho the tissue density, and ve the EES per unit volume of
tissue. the extracellular concentration Ce = Ct/Ve and the concentration difference Cp-Ce is driving transport of tracer across the 
capillary wall. ees is used to specifically exclude the blood space. 
in 1983, Patlak et al published a generalized analysis of tracer compartments and a graphical method (multiple time graphical analysis, MTGA)
for determining PS from the initial uptake portion of the curve, however backflux is ignored (Assumed unidirectional) and only the early part
of the enhancement curve can be used, as backflux is not accounted for. this method was used in MRI studies of rat gliomas, and estimates
of blood to tissue transport constant Ki are PS values in units of ml/kg*min)

general assumptions in any model: basic assumptions related to concepts in tracer kinetics and NMR theory:
1) compartments exist that contain the well-mixed tracer in a uniform concentration throughout the compartment
2) linear intercompartmental flux, the flux between two compartments is proportional to the difference in concentration between compartments
3) time invariance - the parameters describing the compartments are constant during the time that data are acquired.
4) there is a blood plasma compartment, with tracer concentration Cp, units mMole, or mMole/L
5) a lesion EES compartment, with tracer concentration Ce, and and volume ve per unit volume of tissue. 
6) constant relaxivity, the increase in NMR T1 relaxation is rate is proportional to the concentration of Gd-DTPA tracer
7) fast exchange of all mobile (nmr visible) protons within the tissue, so that the tissue relaxes with a single t1 value, even though the
Gd-DTPA is concentrated in the EES and plasma. 

modeling MRI data:
Tofts and Kermode (26) model: permeability was assumed to be isodirectional, ie the same in both directions, which is the case for simple
diffusive transport. it is conceivable however that Pin and Pout may be different, due to a variety of mechanisms. 





















