MRS basics: basics of MRS with emphasis on clinical applications are covered, detailed analysis of physics and chemistry that make
the techniques possible are out of the scope however.
overview: the most widely used MRS protocol 1h proton spectroscopy is an FDA approved procedure. other methods such as 
phosphorous-19, and carbon-13 are available, but proton spectroscopy dominates the literature because it is readily available on 
clinical MRI scanners. 

what can be measured with magnetic resonance spectroscopy? MR imaging maps the distribution and interaction of water with tissue.
in contrast, 1H MRS analyzes the signal of the hydrogen protons attached to other molecules. whereas for MRI only a single peak
(water) is being mapped, the output of MRS is a collection of peaks at different radiofrequencies, representing proton nuclei in 
different chemical environments, the spectrum. because of the low concentration of MR-detectable chemicals, MRS is restricted to
the analysis of individual ROIs much larger than the resolution of MRI. the typical spatial resolution for MRS is 1-10 cm^3, which 
is a thousand times larger than what is typically achieved for MRI (1-10mm^3). 
only small, mobile chemicals with concentrations > 0.5uMol/g can be observed with in-vivo MRS, which leaves most nts out of reach
for MRS, besides perhaps gaba, glutamate, and aspartate. large immobile macromolecules such as myelin, proteins, RNA and DNA are
rendered invisible to MRS. the network of small molecular weight amino acids, carbohydrates, fatty acids, and lipids that can be
measured is tightly controlled in the brain by enzymes and all but a few key molecules are kept at remarkably constant concentrations.
it is for this reason that reproducible MR spectra of the brain can be obtained when robust methods are applied. in sequentially
studied individually healthy controls, the single greatest variable may not be biological or diet imposed variations, but the 
practical and unavoidable inaccuracy of subject positioning, problems with identification of a previously selected region of the 
brain, and imperfect stability of MR hardware. the biophysical fingerprint of a region will be abnormal when there is structural
damage, altered physiological conditions, and biochemical or genetic problems. 

principles of in-vivo mrs: the main ingredient is the strong magnetic field (B0) created by a superconducting magnet, which causes
net magnetization to develop in any tissue brought into that field. this magnetization vector can be tipped out of alignment with
the main field, after which it will precess around the equilibrium direction with a characteristic frequency.
chemical shift: the resonance frequency of the protons is in a first approximation a function of the main magnetic field strength.
however, the electronic environments of molecules causes a small modulation of the main magnetic field. if the electrons are close
to the proton there is a shielding effect and and the proton experiences a minimally smaller magnetic field, which results in slightly
different resonance frequencies for protons in different molecules, or even for protons in the same molecules, but at different
positions within the molecule. for in-vivo mr spectroscopy, analyzing chemical shifts has been the main method for peak assignment.
j-coupling: in addition to chemical shifts, the spectrum is also modulated by j-coupling, or scalar coupling. j-coupling is the result
of an internal indirect interaction of two spins via the intervening electron structure of the molecule. the coupling strength is
measured in Hz and is independent of the external field strength. j-coupling between the same species of spins, ie proton and 
proton, is termed homonuclear coupling, whereas j-coupling between different species of spins ie proton and phosphorous is termed
heteronuclear coupling. j-coupling results in a modulation of the signal intensity depending on sequence type and acquisition 
parameters, particularly the echo time TE. 
echo and repetition time: the main contrast mechanisms in MR imaging are T1-saturation, T2 relaxation, T2* relaxation, diffusion,
and proton density. these properties and acquisition parameters also affect the appearance of the spectrum. however, each proton in
each molecule has its own set of characteristic MR properties. metabolite resonances may be prominent with one acquisition scheme,
whereas the peak amplitude is different when another scheme is used, despite spectra being acquired from the same ROI. therefore,
changing sequence parameters or introducing different acquisition sequences should be done with great caution. 
the most important parameter is the echo time TE, indeed, MR spectroscopy can be separated into long and short TE. TE is the time
the magnetization is in the transverse plane after an excitation and before the readout. during this time, the signal from each 
metabolite peak relaxes with its own characteristic T2 relaxation time. in addition, the signal amplitude of j-coupled protons is
modulated. choosing long echo times simplifies the spectra because the number of peaks in the spectra are reduced, and the available
peaks become larger. historically, long TE (TE>135ms) has been used in the clinic because of a flat baseline, and because the three
peaks (Naa, creatine, choline) can be unequivocally separated. long TE mrs is also less sensitive to hardware issues such as 
eddy currents. short TE allows for more metabolites to be measured, and has a higher SNR. other acquisition parameters that have an
impact on the spectra are relaxation time (tr), and mixing time (tm). TR is the time between each initial excitation of the 
magnetization, if absolute quantitation is required, it is easier to quantify spectra that were obtained with long repetition times.
the mixing time TM is the time delay between the 2nd and 3rd 90deg RF pulse in a STEAM sequence, TE and TM are different parameters.
during TM, the magnetization in a STEAM acquisition points along the field and there is no signal decay due to T2 relaxation. 
editing: editing techniques exploit homo/heteronuclear j-coupling properties of molecules, many editing sequences utilize the fact 
that in an echo sequence the phase of j-coupled spins is modulated during the echo delay. a series of spectra acquired with different
echo times each may allow the separation and identification of overlapping signals from different molecules due to their different
j-modulation. 
data acquisition: planning a magnetic resonance spectra: quality control at the time of data acquisition is essential for MRS. 
manufactureres generally provide PRESS (point-resolved spectroscopy), STEAM (stimulated echo acquisition mode) and isis (image
selected in-vivo spectroscopy), the sequences differ in how rf pulses and gradient pulses are arranged in order to obtain localization.




























