multiple origins of the cortical gamma rhythm: whittington and traub
abstract: gamma rhythms are a near ubiquitious feature of neuronal population activity in mammalian cortex. their
dynamic properties permit the synchronization of neuronal processes to sensory input within spatially distributed
networks, transient formation of local neuronal 'cell assemblies' and coherent response patterns essential for
intercortical regional communication. each of these phenomena form part of a working hypothesis for cognitive
function in cortex. all forms of physiological gamma rhythm are inhibition based, being characterized by rhythmic
trains of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in populations of principle neurons. it is these repeating periods
of relative enhancement and attenuation of the responsivitiy of major cell groups in cortex that provides a 
temporal structure shared across many millions of neurons. however, when considering the origin of these repeating
trains of inhibitory events, considerable divergence is seen depending on the cortical region studied and the
mode of activation of gamma rhythm generating networks. here, they review the evidence for involvement of 
multiple subtypes of interneuron and focus on the different modes of activation for these cells. most massively
parallel brain regions have different mechanisms of gamma rhythm generation, different mechanisms have distinct
functional correlates, and switching between different local modes of gamma generation may be an effective way
to direct cortical communication streams. finally, they suggest that developmental disruption of the 
endophenotype for certain subsets of gamma generating interneuron may underlie cognitive deficit in psychiatric
illness. 
introduction: electrical activity in the EEG gamma band is almost continually present, to some degree, on all
recording electrodes in most behavioral and cognitive states including slow wave sleep, early observations
showed that gamma activity could be significantly enhanced by sensory input, in a sensory modality specific 
fashion. evidence for a functional role for these rhythms began to emerge in late 1980s. in an attempt to link 
the activity of millions of neurons in the primary sensory cortex to the properties of the stimulus itself, it 
was proposed that coherent or precisely synchronized rhythmic activity served to link or bind together the
outputs of all neurons coding for a certain feature of an object in the sensorium. the idea that the output from
a subset of neurons has particular significance if it occurs synchronously with the output from other neurons
forms the basis of the neuronal assembly hypothesis, and has much wider implications for cognition in general. 
gamma rhythms are also particularly implicated in active sensory processes involving attention, and short-term
memory processes. in each case, what is of likely functional importance is the ability of the gamma rhythm to 
limit in time the probability of output generation in any given set of neurons. such a role makes sense, given
that the precise timing of inputs from one cortical region to another is critical for the flow of information
through the cortex. this phenomenon provides a basis for the communication through coherence hypothesis as a 
fundamental component of cortical function. one particular mechanism of gamma rhythm generation appears to be an
ideal substrate for such a functional framework: a combination of feedback from active principal cells back unto
proximal local circuit interneurons and projections to distal interneurons in other oscillating regions provides
a means by which the relative timing of outputs from each region can modify the period duration of each local
gamma rhythm, and impart synchrony despite long conduction delays. However, this is only one of three main modes
of local circuit gamma rhythm characterization using in-vitro models. each mode shares the property of trains of
gamma frequency, phasic inhibitory events unto principal cells, but the mechanism of recruitment of interneurons
into the gamma rhythm, and perhaps the nature of the interneurons themselves, are rather different. here, we
consider the mechanisms and cellular substrates underlying each of these forms of gamma rhythm, and discuss their
possible physiological significance. 

modes of gamma rhythm generation: three distinct but interrelated forms of gamma rhythm have been characterized
in mammalian cortex: with appropriate experimental conditions they can all be seen in relatively simple cortical
circuits such as those in hippocampus cornu ammonis. in each case, the rhythm is an emergent property of the 
local neuronal network, but differs in terms of interneuron recruitment, principle cell involvement, and basic
dynamic properties. 

interneuron network gamma: the simplest form of gamma rhythm can be seen in networks of interneurons alone. 
pharmacological isolation of neurons from phasic excitatory neuronal input, coupled with tonic depolarization of
these interneurons, readily produces a local circuit gamma rhythm characterized by trains of inhibitory 
postsynapic events in quiescent principal cells and fast spiking interneurons. in this mode of gamma generation,
the frequency of the rhythm is sharply dependent on the magnitude of tonic excitation received by interneurons
and the kinetics and magnitude of inhibitory postsynaptic events generated by a recurrent interneuronal network.
despite its elegance and simplicity, a number of problems occur when attempting to elucidate both underlying
mechanisms and physiological relevance of this type of gamma rhythm. 
1) the highly labile nature of frequency under different drives imparts a sensitivity to drive heterogeneity. in 
computational models of interneuron networks connected with phasic synaptic inhibition (but without gap junctions)
even a small variability of tonic drives to each interneuron in the local recurrent circuit has a detrimental 
effect on gamma generation. despite this, experimental observations showed that such a rhythm is highly robust. 
the reason for this dichotomy appears to be the presence of gap junctions between fast spiking interneurons. 
such non-chemical synaptic connections act as low pass filters, effectively sharing slow changes in membrane
potential. thus, blocking gap junction conductance during interneuron network gamma (ING) in preventing the 
equilibration of membrane potential and synergistic interactions between the electrical and chemical synapses
between interneurons detrimentall affects the generation of this mode of gamma rhythm; network simulations
of ING that include gap junctions are also robust to heterogeneity. 
2) the original studies on ING implicated perisomatic targeting, fast spiking interneurons as the substrate for
the interneuron network. of all the interneurons fitting this criteria, parvalbumin immunopositive basket cells 
appeared to be the most likely. during experimentally induced gamma rhythms and earlier computational models the
decay constant for IPSCs onto interneurons was seen to be in the range of 4-10ms, with the frequency of the 
network gamma oscillation exquisity sensitive to this parameter. in contrast, precise biophysical measurement of
decay time constant in basket-basket connections, albeit in nonoscillating tissue, showed considerably faster
kinetics with time constants as low as 1-2ms. such values could still generate ING like rhythms in the gamma 
range in simulations with alterations in other interneuron properties. the difference is large however and it may
be possible that the basket cell network alone is not responsible for ING in hippocampus. interneurons form 
dense heterogenous local networks involving many different subtypes, the involvement of other interneuron 
subtypes is a recurring theme when attempting to explain experimental observations of the gamma rhythm. 
3) with one exception, all experimental studies on ING have used highly non-physiological conditions to expose
this mode of gamma rhythm generation. specifically, the presence of ING can only be established using manipulation
of tissue bathing media to pharmacologically block fast, ionotropic glutamatergic excitation, which leads one
to question whether ING is of any physiological relevance at all. However, in cerebellar cortex both 
principal cells and and most of their local circuit interneurons are GABAergic. here, cholinergic activation via
nicotinic receptors generates a gamma frequency local field potential oscillation that is independent of any 
kainaite, AMPA, or NMDA receptor activity. the cerebellar cortex contains vast numbers of glutamatergic neurons
(Granule cells) but in the absence of any afferent input in the in-vitro slice preparation, these neurons appear
irrelevant to the continuous gamma rhythm generated by nicotinic neuromodulation. 
along with absence of a role for glutamatergic excitation, the cerebellar circuits shows a number of similiarites
to experimentally induced ING in other cortical circuits. spontaneous purkinje or principal cell firing is 
markedly reduced, and temporally uncorrelated spiking is transformed to sparse highly correlated spiking, with
the underlying mechanism the existence of gamma frequency trains of IPSP in both principal cells and interneurons.
both hippocampal and cerebellar ING require gab junction connections between neurons, in the hippocampus this
coupling involves only low frequency coupling of interneuron membrane potential, however in cerebellar neurons
gap junctional coupling combined with intrinsic membrane properties results in action potential coupling also. 

pyramidal interneuron gamma: reciprocal interactions between principle cells and interneurons are thought to 
underlie the sensory cortical generated gamma rhythm. the predominant mechanism underlying this mode of gamma
rhythm generation is the phasic excitation presented to interneurons via fast AMPA receptor mediated post 
synaptic potentials following orthodromic spike generation in principle cells. at spike rates in tens of Hz,
the massive convergence of local excitatory inputs onto interneurons (1500:1) is sufficient to overcome
frequency dependent and metabotropic receptor mediated attenuation of post-synaptic responses, and produce 
large 2-10mV EPSP. the resulting divergence of outputs from individual interneurons back to the principle cells
leads to temporally modulated principle cell output, as with ING neurons, provided of course that different 
interneurons fire synchronously. the requirements for high principal cell spike rates is reflected in the case where
pyramidal interneuron network gamma PING is seen. pressure ejections of glutamate depolarizes both principle cells
and inteneurons, resulting in spike rates around the gamma frequency. similarly, intense tetanic excitation and
transient elevation of extracellular potassium also generate a PING rhythm, which may persist for several seconds
following stimulus termination. in computational models, PING may exist entirely independently from ING, with no
requirement for tonic interneuron depolarization or reciprocal interneuron network activity. experimentally however
it is much harder to separate these two modes of rhythm generation. the three main models: tetanic stimulation, 
extracellular potassium increase, and glutamate pressure injection can all still generate gamma when principal cell
outputs or inputs to interneurons are experimentally ablated. continuous, intense activation or hippocampal circuits
with carbachol or kainaite may also generate a PING like rhythm, which may also coexist to some degree with 
interneuron network activation. in-vivo, specific optogenetic drive of fast-spiking interneurons in layers 2-6
enhances cortical gamma, suggesting a critical role for interneuron drive, and activation of principal cells in 
layers 2 and 5 did not generate gamma although these layers are not part of the main gamma circuit. gamma rhythms
associated with visual sensory responses significantly improved spike timing precision without increasing principal
cell spike rates. 
from the above observations, it remains difficult to separate ING from PING at a functional level in physiological
conditions. nevertheless, having reciprocal dynamical interactions between principal cells and interneurons has at
least three important consequences for nework dynamics. first, when compared to ING frequecny becomes more stable
in the face of changes in network excitation. second, allowing principal neurons to modulate interneuron spike
timing provides a robust mechanism for establishing long-range synchrony between spatially separate gamma-generating
local circuits. finally, the nature of synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses unto interneurons provides a 
powerful means by which to modulate and stabilize distributed network activity. on the basis of in-vitro studies,
it seems reasonable to assume that PING and ING exist predominantly as transient phenomena in cerebral cortical
networks, occuring during or immediately following brief intense periods of principal cell activity. an alternative
mechanism for the more persistent gamma (PG) rhythms must be sought, which is associated with sparse principal cell
background activity, anticipatory cortical states, and on-going rhythmogenesis during sequential cognitive tasks. 

persistent gamma: models of gamma rhythm involving tonic activation of muscarinic, kainate, and metabotropic 
receptors generate oscillations that persist for many hours. 





















