the origin of extracellular fields and currents - EEG, ECOG, LFP and spikes
abstract: neuronal activity in the brain gives rise to transmembrane currents that can be measured in the extracellular
medium. the major contributor of the extracellular current is the synaptic transmembrane current, other sources
including Na+ and Ca+ spikes, ionic fluxes through voltage and ligand-gated channels, and intrinsic membrane oscillations,
can substatially shape the extracellular field. high density recordings of field activity in animals, and subdural 
recordings in humans, combined with recently developed data processing tools and computational modeling, can provide
insight into the cooperative behavior of neurons, their average synaptic input and spiking output, and increase our 
understanding of how these processes contribute to the extracellular signal. 

electric current contributions from all active cellular processes within a volume or brain tissue superimpose at a given
region in the extracellular medium and generate a potential V (which is a scalar measured in volts), with respect to the
reference potential. the difference in V between two locations gives rise to an electric field, which is a vector whose
amplitude is measured in volts per distance, that is defined as the negative spatial gradient of V. Electric fields can 
be monitored by extracellularly placed electrodes with sub-millisecond time resolution and can be used to interpret many
facets of neuronal communication and computation. A major advantage of extracellular field recording techniques is that in
contrast to other methods used for the investigation of network activity, the biophysics related to these measurements are
well understood. this has enabled the development of reliable and quantitative methods mathematical models to elucidate
how transmembrane currents give rise to the recorded electric potential. 

historically, V has been referred to as the electroencephalogram (EEG) when recorded from the scalp, as the ECOG when
recorded from subdural grids on the cortical surface, and as the local field potential (LFP) or depth EEG when recorded
by a small size electrode in the brain. 
recent advances in microelectrode technology using silicon based polytrodes offer new possibilities for estimating 
input-output transfer functions in-vivo, and high density recordings of electric and magnetic fields of the human brain 
now provided unprecedented spatial coverage and resolution of the elementary processes involved in generating the 
extracellular field. novel time-resolved spectral methods provide insights into the functional meaning of the information
rich high frequency bands of the V signal. these new developments have led to a more in-depth understanding not only of
the relationship between network activity and cognitive behavior, but also of pathomechanism in brain disease. 

contributors to extracellular fields: any excitable membrane be it a spine, dendrite, axon, axon terminal, and any type 
of transmembrane current contributes to the extracellular field. the field is the superposition of all ionic processes, 
from fast action potentials to the slowest fluctuations in the glia. all currents in the brain superimpose at any given
point to in space to yield V at that location. thus, any transmembrane current, irrespective of its origin, leads to an
intracellular as well as an extracellular voltage deflection. the characteristics of the LFP waveform, such as the 
amplitude and frequency, depend onn the proportional contributions of the multiple sources, and various properties of 
brain tissue. the larger the distance of the recording electrode from the current source, the less informative the LFP
becomes about the events occuring at the location (s) of the sources. this is mainly owing to the fact that Ve amplitude
scales with the inverse of the distance r between the sources and the recording site, and to the inclusion of other 
signals leading to spatial averaging. in addition to the magnitude and sign of the individual current sources, and their
spatial density, the temporal coordinate of the respective current sources (that is, their synchrony) shapes the 
extracellular field. thus, extracellular currents can arise from multiple sources as described below. 

Synaptic activity: in physiological situations, synaptic activity is often the most important source of extracellular
current flow. the idea that synaptic currents contribute to the LFP stems from the recognition that extracellular currents
from many individual compartments must overlap in time to induce a measurable signal, and such overlap is most easily
achieved for slow events such as synaptic currents. the dendrites and soma of a neuron form a tree-like structure, with an
electrically conducting interior surrounded by a relatively insulating membrane, with hundreds to tens of thousands of
synapses located along it. neurotransmitters acting on synaptic AMPA or NMDA receptors mediate excitatory currents, 
involving Na+ and Ca2+ ions respectively, which flow inwardly at the synapse. This influx of cations from the extra to
intracellular space gives rise to a local extracellular sink, which must be balanced by return current or an extracellular
source, which is opposing ionic flux from the intracellular to the extracellular medium. depending on the distance of 
the source from the sink, a dipole or n-pole is formed. the contribution of a monopole to V scales as 1/r, whereas the
contribution of a dipole scales faster, as 1/r^2, this steeper decline being due to the two opposing charges that 
comprise the dipole cancelling each other out to first order. 

notably, gaba subtype A receptor mediated inhibitory currents are thought to add very little to the extracellular field
as the Cl- equilibrium potential is close to the resting membrane potential. However, in actively spiking neurons the
membrane is depolarized, and therefore inhibitory and hyperpolarizing currents can generate substantial membrane flow. 

spike afterhyperpolarization and 'down' states: elevation of the intracellular concentration of a certain ion may trigger
influx of other ions through activation of ligand-gated channels, and this will in turn contribute to V. for example, 
bursts of fast spikes and associated dendritic Ca2+ spikes are often followed by hyperpolarization of the membrane, owing
to activation of Ca2+ mediated increase of K+ conductance in the somatic region. as the amplitude and duration of such 
burst-induced afterhyperpolarizations can be as large and last as long as synaptic events, AHPs also contribute to the
extracellular field, particularly when bursting of nearby neurons occurs in a temporally coordinated fashion: for example,
following hippocampal sharp wave events. in the intact brain, responses to unexpected stimuli or movement initiation are
often associated with relatively long-lasting (0.2-2s) LFP shifts, which might be mediated by synchronized AHPs. this 
slow LFP is often referred to as readiness potential or contingent negative variation. 

during non-REM sleep, the membrane potential of cortical neurons periodically shifts (0.5-1.5Hz) between a hyperpolarized
'down' state and a more depolarized 'up' (spiking) states. at least part of the cessation of spiking during the down 
states can be explained by AHPs of the synchronously bursting pyramidal cells in the up state. the temporally coordinated
silent down state of nearby neurons is associated with a positive V in infragranular layers and and a negative V in the 
supragranular layers (these down states are also known as delta waves, 48,54-56). various mechanisms contribute to these
state transitions, including a gradual decrease in extracellular Ca2+ concentration, and corresponding decrease in 
synpatic transmission, inactivation of Ih channels, and other network effects. as the largest amplitude of up-down shifts
of the membrane occur in the large layer 5 pyramidal neurons, it has been suggested that the large voltage shifts in the
somata of of synchronously active silent neurons induce the formation of an extracellular dipole between deep 
(infragranular) and superficial (supragranular) layers. neither interneurons nor the thalamocortical inputs are active
during the down state, so that down state (characterized by delta waves) is a disfacilitatory, non-synaptic event that can
be mimicked by synchronous hyperpolarization of nearby pyramidal neurons. 

gap junctions and neuron-glia interactions: direct electric communication between neurons through gap junctions or 
electrical synapses can enhance neuronal synchrony. although gap junctions allow ionic movements across neurons, and
therefore do not involve any extracellular current flow, they can affect neuronal excitability and contribute indirectly
to the extracellular field. membrane potential changes in non-neuronal cells such as glia may also give rise to V. recent
studies on neuron-glia interactions have indicated that the glial synctium may contribute to slow and infra-slow (<0.1Hz)
field patterns, which may arise from glia, glia-neuron interactions, or vascular events. 
ephatic effects: neurons are surrounded by a conducting medium, the extracellular space, and can therefore sense the the
electrical gradients they generate during processing. in fact, the effect of gradients brought about by synchronous 
population activity along cable-like dendrites can be mimicked by appropriate intracellular current injections. this 
raises the question of whether the spatiotemporal field fluctuations in the brain are merely an epiphenomenon of 
coordinated cellular activity, or whether they also have a functional feedback or amplification role by affecting the
discharge properties of neurons. that is, do they serve any function for the organism or are they like the heartbeat, a
useful diagnostic epiphenomenon. due to the high resistivity of the extracellular medium, it is unlikely that spikes have
this effect, however when many neurons are synchronously active, ephatic effects may come into play due to the strong 
spatial gradients generated in the extracellular voltage. methods such as trans cranial electrical stimulation have a 
measureable effets on neurons, and the fields brough about by these stimulation techniques are similar to those produced
by population patterns in vivo under physiological conditions. ephatic coupling has been shown to affect population 
activity during hypersynchronous epileptic discharge, and ephatic feeback may affect spike-field coherences and bias the
spiking phases with respect to the LFP also under physiological conditions, for example during hippocampal sharp waves
or theta waves. 

neuronal geometry and architecture: all neurons contribute to the extracellular field, but their relative contribution 
depends on their shape. pyramidal cells are the most populous cell type, and they have long thick apical dendrites that
can generate strong dipoles along the somatodendritic axis. such dipoles give rise to an open field, as there is 
considerable spatial separation of the active sink from the return currents. this induces substantial ionic flow in the
extracellular medium, therefore neurons that generate open fields such as pyramidal cells make a sizeable contribution to
the extracellular fields. by contrast, spherically symmetric neurons such as thalamocortical neurons that emanate 
dendrites of relatively equal size in all directions can give rise to a closed field. however, a strictly closed field 
only arises when several dendrites are synchronously activated. as this is rarely the case, depolarization of a single 
dendrite generates a small field even when the cell is spherically symmetric. 
assuming a homogenous medium, the two most important determinants of the extracellular field strength are are the spatial
alignment of neurons and the temporal synchrony of the dipole moments they generate. in cytoarchitecturally regular
structure such as the cortex, the apical dendrites of pyramidal cell neurons lie parallel to one another and the afferent
inputs run perpendicular to the dendritic axis. this geometry is ideal for the superposition of synchronously active 
dipoles and is the primary reason why LFPs are largest in cortex. in the rodent hippocampus, the soma of pyramidal cells
occupy only a few rows, by contrast in the human hippocampus the cell bodies are vertically shifted relative to each other
and form a wider somatic layer. as a result, the source currents from the soma flow in the opposite direction to the sink
currents from the dendrites of neighouring neurons, effectively cancelling each other. this partly explains why the 
amplitude of the LFP decreases from rat to cat, and from cat to primate. another reason why brain size affects the 
magnitude of the extracellular current is that mammals with smaller brains have smaller pyramidal cell neurons, which are
therefore more densely packed compared to mammals with larger brains, leading to a small conductivity sigma. indeed, all
LFP patterns have larger amplitude in the mouse than in the rat brain. 
another important geometric factor that affets the magnitude of the extracellular current flow is the highly folded nature
of the cortex in higher mammals. when the cortical sheet bends to form a gyrus, the apical dendrites are pushed closer to
each other on the concave side, and current density becomes higher compared to when the apical dendrites occupy the 
convex side of the curve. the influence of tissue curving is particularly striking in the dentate-gyrus-subiculum-
hippocampus axis, where concave and convex bends alternate. in subcortical structures, spatial regularity of neurons is
much less prominent, nevertheless afferent fibers from one source may have some asymmetric distribution on spherically
symmetric neurons, whose temporally synchronous activity can generate spatially distinct sources and sinks. 

temporal factors: geometric factors alone cannot explain the magnitude of the extracellular current. for example, the
cerebellum is a highly ordered structure, but generates very weak extracellular field. this is because cerebellar 
computation is mainly local, and does not require the input of many large numbers of neurons. however, when synchrony
is imposed on the cerebellum from outside, large currents can arise in the extracellular space. thus, in addition to 
cytoarchitecture, a second critical factor in determining the magnitude of the extracellular current is the temporally
synchronous fluctuations of the membrane potential in large groups of neuronal aggregates. synchrony, which is often 
brought about through network oscillations, explains why different brain states are associated with dramatically 
different magnitudes of LFP. a consistent quantitative feature of the LFP is that the magnitude of LFP power is inversely
related to temporal frequency, that is, there is 1/f^n scaling, with n between 1-2. these features have given rise to 
much speculation regarding the relationship between the network features of the brain and the extracellular signal, 
although a strict power law behavior of the LFP is still being debated. the 1/f scaling property of the LFP can be
largely attributed to the low-pass frequency filtering propert of dendrites. simulations have shown that in large layer 5
pyramidal neurons, the effect of a high-frequency local input (100Hz) to the distal dendrite can be detected 
extracellularly near the distal dendritic segment, whereas the signal is attenuated approximately 100-fold near the soma. 
slower signals (<1Hz) are attenuated much less. the low pass filtering effect of a purely passive neuron depends on the
distance between the soma and the location of the input, and on the membrane time constant. this suggests that dendritic
morphology is an important factor in frequency filtering, and pyramidal cells, with their long dendrites, are particularly
effective low-pass filters. however, as the electrotonic length and input resistance of neurons can be effectively altered
by synaptically induced inhibitory and excitatory conductance changes, the frequency filtering performance of neurons 
depends not only on the geometric characeteristics of neurons but also on their physiological state. the capacitative 
nature of the extracellular medium itself is another frequently cited caused of the attenuation of high frequency LFP. 
network mechanisms also contribute to the 1/f nature of the spectrum. in a brief time window, only a few neurons can 
contribute to the LFP, but in a longer time window, many more neurons can contribute, giving rise to a much larger LFP. 
this is also reflected in the phase-coherence distance relationship, with lower frequency signals having higher coherence
compared to higher frequency signals. provided that neuronal recruitment happens within the time span of an integrating
mechanism, (NMDA/GABA receptors have a slow time constant, while AMPA or GABAb recptors have a short time constant) the 
amplitude of low frequency LFP components will be larger than the amplitude of high frequency LFP components. finally, 
different network oscillations generated in the cerebral cortex may show a hierarchical relationship, often expressed by
cross-frequency coupling between the various rhythms. as the phase of slower oscillations modulates the power of higher
frequency events (phase-amplitude coupling), the duration of the faster events is limited by the allowable phase of the
slower event. 
it should be emphasized that most neuronal communication takes place in short time windows, from tens to hundreds of ms, 
and the spectral properties of such short time windows strongly deviate from the scale-free frequency-power distribution,
and are often dominated by oscillations or sensory input triggered induced or evoked events. these stimulus driven,
transient LFP events are the physiologically relevant time windows from which one aims to infer neuronal communication
from the mean field behavior of neuronal populations. 

the role of volume conduction in V: the electric field specifies the forces acting on a charged particle. the field is 
defined at every point in space from which one can measure a force 'felt' by an electric charge, and it can be 
transmitted through a volume, a phenomenon known as volume conduction. the origin of the volume conducted field is the 
return currents of the dipole (18,22,83). the extent of volume conduction depends on intricate relationships between the
current dipole and features of the conductive medium, consequently, some LFP patterns can be recorded far away from the 
source, and others remain relatively local. the most robust demonstration of the importance of volume conduction is that 
return currents from active dipoles in brain tissue can be measured on the scalp by electric recording mechanisms. 
assuming that conductivity in the brain is purely ohmic, the V induced by a current dipole depends on the magnitude and 
location of the current source, and on the conductivity of the extracellular medium. conductivity in the medium depends on
the degree of isotropy and homogeneity in the medium, and is therefore a function of a number of factors, including the
geometry of the extracellular space. the relationship between V and the CSD J measured in A/m^2 at a particular point in 
space is given by maxwell's equations of electromagnetism, that in their simplified form (when magnetic contributions can
be neglected) dictate that gradient(sigma*V) = -gradient(J) where sigma is the extracellular conductivity tensor. the 
properties of sigma crucially effect the waveform and functionality of the spatiotemporal V deflections. assuming that the
extracellular milieu can be satisfactorily described by a purely homogenous and isotropic ohmic volume conductivity sigma,
V is governed by Laplace's equation gradient^2(V) = 0, with a boundary condition along a cable-like source described by
sigma*V = J, where J is the transmembrane current density. for a single point source in an unbounded isotropic volume 
conductor, the solution is V = I/(4*pi*sigma*r). multiple current sources and sinks then combine linearly by the 
superposition principle. it follows that the transmembrane voltage is a relatively poor predictor of the extracellular LFP
whereas the transmembrane current is a more reliable estimator. the above calculations assume that the extracellular 
medium is homogenous and isotropic. measurements of the extracellular medium in the relevant frequency range (<10Hz) 
have not yet fully resolved this issue, some experiments indicating that it is anisotropic and homogenous, and others 
suggesting that it is strongly anisotropic, inhomogenous, and may even possess capacitative features. 
striking examples of volume-conducted events have been demonstrated in hemispherectomized patients over the missing
hemisphere. furthermore, auditory evoked brain stem responses over the scalp are a clinically useful diagnostic tool based
on volume conduction. volume conduction clearly poses problems for the interpretation of the functional meaning of the
relationship between signals recorded from different brain locations. for example, two nearby dipoles with different 
orientations can produce volume conducted fields at different sites, and when the coherence between signals recorded at 
these distant sites increases (for example, as a function of behavior), this may falsely be interpreted as some dynamic
or functional coupling between the circuits residing at the sites of the recording electrodes, even though the coherence
increase was brough about by the temporal shifts between the two dipoles (117). 

the inverse problem of LFP: extracellular signals provide information about the collective behavior of aggregates of 
neurons, particularly with regard to the temporal scale of their activity. however, the same macroscopic extracellular 
signal can be generated by diverse cellular events. thus a seemingly similar theta oscillation in the hippocampus and
cortex may be brought about by differen mechanisms. a common obstacle in interpreting the 'mean field signal' is the
'inverse problem', or the problem of attempting to infer the microscopic variables from the macroscopic ones, in this case
inferring the nature of the primary current dipoles from the spatiotemporal profile of the volume conducted field. 
this problem is commonly dealt with by first solving the 'forward problem', deriving macroscopic variables from their
elementary, causal constituents, and then using the established relationships between the microscopic and macroscopic 
variables to gain insight into the the microscopic events from the macroscopic patterns. the first step in this process
is to identify the contribution of the suspected synaptic and non-synaptic mechanisms of the LFP by correlating the 
macroscopic events and the microscopic events (119,120,122). alternatively, synthetic mean fields can be generated in 
network models of neurons in which events in the different domains of the neurons are timed on the basis of experimentally
observed temporal patterns. 

localizing current sinks and sources : CSD analysis: in deciphering the location of the current sources (That is, cations
flowing from the intracellular space to the extracellular space) and sinks (Cations flowing into the cell) that give rise
to the LFP, the concept of CSD is useful. CSD is a quantity that represents the volume density of the net current leaving
or entering the extracellular space. consider a distant current source relative to three linearly and equally spaced 
recording sites in a homogenous volume. each electrode will measure some contribution to the field from the distant source,
and the voltage difference between the middle and side electrode will be small. as a consequence, the differences between
the 'voltage differences per distance' or second spatial derivative of V, between the middle and side electrodes is small,
an indication that the field can be attributed to a distant source. by contrast, if the three electrodes span the 
location of the current generating synapse or neuron group, the voltage at the three recording sites will be unequal and
the difference magnitude of this derivative will be large, an indication of the local origin of the current. the current
flow between the two recording sites can be calculated from the voltage distance and the resistivity using Ohm's law.

interpreting current density: unfortunately, it is not possible using CSD methods alone to interpret for example if an
outward current close to the cell body is due to active inhibitory synaptic currents, or if it reflects the passive return
current of active excitatory processes. the missing information may be obtained by selectively stimulating the various
anatomically identified inputs to the recording circuit, this process helps to attribute the sinks and sources to the 
known sources of synaptic inputs. in addition to anatomical knowledge, simultaneous intracellular recordings from 
representative neurons within the population responsible for the generation of the LFP may be required. it is also 
possible to record extracellularly from identified pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons in the same volume of 
tissue and use the spike-field correlations to determine whether, for example, a local current is an active hyperpolarizing
current or a passive return current from a more distant depolarizing event. somatic hyperpolarization brough about by the
activation of perisomatic basket cell neurons also generates a voltage gradient between the soman and dendrites. as 
dendritic excitation and somatic inhibition result in the same direction of current flow, the excitatory and inhibitory
currents will superimpose in extracellular space and result in large-amplitude LFPs. although strong somatic inhibition 
can enhance the magnitude of the LFP, it may at the same time veto the occurence of action potentials in pyramidal cells. 
this complex relationship is the reason why large-amplitude extracellular current flow may be associated with strong 
spiking, moderate spiking, or no spiking output. as a result the measured correlation between LFP and spiking activity
can vary tremendously, even within a small volume. such variable coupling between LFP and unit firing may be one of the
sources of controversy regarding the contribution of LFP vs spikes to the MRI-BOLD signal fluctuations, because often 
there is a strong correlation between LFP power in the gamma range and spiking activity. 

spike contribution to the LFP: any transmembrane current contributes to the LFP, including currents generated by action
potentials. the action potential includes not only the spike itself, but the AHPs, which have duration and magnitudes that
vary as a function of brain state and neuron type. the spike contribution to the LFP has important implications. first,
increased spiking generates a broad frequency spectrum with a power distribution that depends on the composition of the
active cell types, second both increased spike frequency and synchrony increase spectral power particularly in the high
frequency (>100Hz) ranges. however, when spike AHPs are also considered, the contribution of action potentials may be
substantial in the lower frequency ranges as well, even in the absence of synaptic transmission. thus, increased power in
the higher frequency bands can be regarded as an index of spiking synchrony. third, high frequency power has a restricted
spatial extent, it increases in layers with a high density of cell bodies and axon terminals. fourth high frequency power,
which largely reflects spiking activity, co-varies with LFP components that emanate from postsynaptic potentials and other
non-spike related membrane voltage fluctuations. fifth, the high-frequency power can be phase-locked to low-frequency
oscillations, this occurs because it is largely the phase locked spiking neurons that generate the extracellular currents. 
overall, the high frequency content of the LFP can be used as a proxy for neuronal outputs. 

conclusions and future directions: 









