graphical analysis of blood to brain transfer constants from multiple time point uptake data 
summary: a theoretical model of blood-brain exchange is developed and and a procedure is derived that can be used for
graphing multiple-time tissue uptake data and determining whether a unidirectional transfer process was dominant
during part or all of the experimental period. if the graph indicates unidirectionality of input, then an influx 
constant Ki can be be calculated. The model is general, assumes linear transfer kinetics, and consists of a 
blood-plasma compartment, a reversible tissue region with an arbitrary number of compartments, and one or more 
irreversible tissue regions. the solution of the equations for this model shows that a graph of the ratio of the total
tissue solute concentration at the times of sampling to the plasma concentration at the respective times (Cp) versus 
the versus the ratio of arterial plasma concentration - time integral to Cp should be drawn. if the data are consistent
with this model, then this graph will yield a curve that will eventually become linear, with a slope of Ki and an 
ordinate intercept less than or equal to the vascular plus steady state space of the reversible tissue region. 

introduction: most studies of solute transfer across the BBB employ the same general experimental procedure and derive
one of three transfer numbers - the extraction fraction, the influx constant, or the efflux constant (washout). the
experimental procedure usually includes introducing the solute of interest into the bloodstream, taking blood samples
throughout the experimental period, obtaining terminal brain and blood samples, and assaying the samples for the test
solute. the calculation of the appropriate transfer number involves the assumption of a specific blood-tissue 
distribution model for the system and insertion of the experimental data into the working equation of the assumed
model. 
the influx constant Ki has been measured least to date, yet when properly determined it reliably quantitates blood-brain
transport for all but rapidly exchanging solutes, and is the only transfer number which can be accurately determined
for solutes that cross the BBB slowly. moreover, a simple relationship between Ki, capillary blood flow, capillary 
surface area, and capillary permeability has been developed and can be used to convert the influx constant of the test
solute to a PS product if the blood flow is known. 
the transfer constant for a particular solute across a membrane such as a frog's skin or the toad urinary bladder is 
usually determined experimentally by measuring the unidirectional flux rate across the epithelium from a source 
solution of constant concentration. in this situation, Ki is defined as the steady state rate of solute flux across
the membrane system divided by the test solute's concentration in the source solution. therefore, with respect to BBB,
Ki is defined as the steady-state rate of solute flux across the BBB complex from plasma into brain extracellular fluid,
divided by the plasma concentration of the solute. the present paper illustrates how Ki can be found for any membrane
system including the BBB when the source solution's concentration is not constant. 
for the calculation of an influx constant from blood-tissue distribution data, the net transfer of the solute across
the BBB is assumed to be unidirectional throughout the experimental period. this assumption means that all the test
material that cross the BBB into the test tissue remains there at the time of brain sampling. potassium is one such 
tracer for which this would hold true. 
in the present paper, a theoretical model of blood-brain exchange is developed and used to analyze solute influx across
the BBB. the model is general because no specific time course of arterial concentration is assumed and no particular
arrangement or number of compartments in the system is presupposed. the compartments can be in series between the plasma
and brain extracellular fluid, or in parallel to the BBB. however, the movement of solute out of the last compartments
of the BBB and into the EES must be irreversible, ie, unidirectional. 
the equations that arise from the model indicate that the presence and duration of steady state unidirectional influx 
can be assessed by plotting the uptake data from many experiments of differing durations in a particular way, and 
determining whether the resulting curve has a linear portion. if a linear phase is found, then the net transfer process
is effectively unidirectional for that specific period of time, and the influx constant can be calculated from the
slope of the line. in addition, the multiple time/graphical approach eliminates the necessity of employing a vascular
space marker and intravascular distribution correction of the tissue data, provides physiological information about the
distribution of the test material within the BBB complex, and can be used to assess the rate constant of an 
essentially irreversible metabolic process within the blood-brain system as well as a transport one. for example, the
rate of glucose metabolization in the brain can be determined by making the appropriate plot 2-deoxyglucose distribution
data because the hexokinase reaction is essentially irreversible. 

theory: the following assumptions are made about the transport model: 
1) there is a single source for the test solute in the system (plasma, denoted by subscript p)
2) the concentration of the test material in the plasma, Cp, may vary with time.
3) relatively rapid exchange of the test substance can occur between the plasma and a tissue region, which is made up
of n compartments. the test solute can flow directly or indirectly from plasma into any of these compartments, move
freely among any of these compartments, and flow back into the plasma. the test solute transfer between and among the
plasma and the compartments of this first region is reversible. this exchangeable tissue region is denoted by 
subscript 'r'. 
4) the test solute can enter a second tissue distribution region from the blood and/or the exchangeable tissue region,
however after entering this region the solute cannot leave. the second region is called the irreversible or bound 
region, and consists of one or more parts that can be lumped together mathematically into a single compartment. 
5) the test solute in the exchangeable region can leave this region only by going either into the plasma or the 
irreversible region. 
6) the transfer of the test solute within this system obeys first-order kinetics, with the rate constant for its 
movement from the jth to the ith compartment being denoted as kij. 
7) the test solute does not alter the system.
8) if the system metabolizes the test substance, this only occurs in the irrversible region and produces a metabolite 
that is trapped therein and is measurable. 
9) the test solute is not initially present in either the exchangeable or bound region. 

the necessary equations of this tracer distribution system are the standard ones: if t is time, A is an nx1 vector
of the amounts of model solute in each of the exchangeable compartments, K is the nxn matrix of the rate constants
kij, Q is the nx1 vector of the rate constants from the plasma to the exchangeable compartments, (kip), and Cp(t) is 
the tracer concentration in the plasma, then, the following relationship describes tracer accumulation in the 
reversible compartment: dA/dt = K*A + Q*Cp(t). 
if G is the nxn diagonal matrix of the rate constants from the exchangeable to the bound regions, (kbi), kbp is the 
rate constant for the direct movement of material from the plasma to the trap, and Un' = (1...1), a 1xn vector, then 
the equation for the amount of material T in the irreversible region is dT/dt = Un'*G*A + kbp*Cp. 
the measureables of the experimental system are Cp and the total amount of material in the tissue samples Am. if Vp is
the volume of the plasma in the tissue sampled, then  Am = Un'*A + T + Vp*Cp. 
if Cp is constant, A will approach a finite limit as t approaches infinity, since the real parts of the eigenvalues
of K are negative. thus, for the case when t approaches infinity, 

DISCUSSION: the preceding theoretical treatment indicates a way to measure the classical unidirectional flux constant
for any membrane system when the concentration of the test solute is not maintained constant in the source solution.
this approach can be applied to study solute flux across simple single membranes and more complex multi membrane 
compartment systems. the following procedure demonstrates the method of assessing solute influx constants across the 
BBB complex and also serves as a model for the study of any membrane system. 
First, uptake experiments of varying duration are performed in a series of animals, or multiple measurements over time
are made in a single subject. the test solute can be administered in any manner, but the time course of the plasma
concentration as well as the final concentrations in plasma and brain must be accurately measured in each animal
or by serial measurements in a single subject. then, all data are combined by brain region, and plots of 
Am/Cp vs integral(0,t)[Cp*dtau]/Cp are made from each group of data. finally, the forms of the resulting curves are 
analyzed for linearity (that is, unidirectionality of uptake), if a linear phase or portion of the curve is 
discernible, then the influx constant is estimated from the slope of this line. Am is the total amount of material in 
the tissue samples.
the multiple-time/graphical approach produces a relatively model-independent transfer constant, which results in a 
significant advantage for data analysis in comparison to compartmental analysis, since the results for any 
compartmental analysis are highly specific to the particular comparmental model chosen. 
the principle advantage of the multiple time/graphical approach for the measurement of the influx constant is the 
opportunity it provides to assess the unidirectionality of the test solute's transport across the BBB, and to validate
the assumption of this unidirectionality. the approach also eliminates the employment of a marker - either a different
isotopic form of the test solute or a different material - for the determination of the vascular space within the 
tissue sample and the correction of the measured tissue concentration for the amount of test solute that was entrapped
within this space at the end of the experimental period. 
as presented in the intro, bradbury and kleeman first conceived of the multiple time/graphical approach and applied it
to their studies of tracer potassium exchange between blood and brain. in this study, and the similar ones mentioned,
constant plasma levels of the various test solutes were maintained, and this experimental condition allowed the 
simple plotting of the tissue/plasma concentration ratio vs time, the ready evaluation of the linearity of the uptake
process, and the estimation of the influx constant. however, a time course of constant arterial concentration is hard
to obtain experimentally. 
simpler experimental and analytic procedures for measuring the influx constant were introduced, which included the 
administration of a test solute by bolus, selection of a single experimental time, and use of a simple equation for
calculation of the influx constant, but these simplifications also introduced new problems. 

in addition to eliminating a vascular space correction, the multiple time/graphical approach produces information about
the distribution of the test solute within the BBB complex and reversible compartments in parallel with the BBB. the
ordinate intercept obtained by extrapolating the linear portion of the uptake curve is equal to or less than the 
apparent steady state distribution volume of the solute in all the reversible and exchangeable compartments, including
the blood space of the tissue. a number of studies have indicated that the rapid distribution spaces of extracellular
solutes in the blood-brain system may be something more than the plasma space. for instance, it was found that there 
was the following relationship between rapidly exchanging spaces of 4 solutes: plasma globulin, dextran, inulin, and
H-mannitol. 
this approach considers a more general BBB than previously considered. the derivation and model of blood-brain transfer
considers the possibility of multiple compartments that rapidly equilibriate with each other and plasma, and which can
be in parallel to as well as in series with overall bbb flux. 
there are at least two situations in which the multiple-time/graphical method is clearly inappropriate: the first is
if the biological state of the animal in a series changes over the time intervals used in the study. the second is 
if the animal model is not reproducible from individual to individual. 

in summary, graphical analysis of brain uptake data from experiments of varying times not only allows the evaluation 
of the unidirectionality of transfer and of the influx constant, but also eliminates the vascular space correction of
other analytical approaches and the model dependency of compartmental analyis. in addition, the multiple time/graphical
approach produces information about the size and exchange rates of the compartments that rapidly and reversibly 
exchange with plasma. 
the multiple time/graphical approach is also highly applicable to the analysis of data obtained from PET because a 
series of timed data for graphical analysis can be obtained for a single subject. 


















