graphical evaluation of blood to brain transfer constants from multiple time uptake data. generalizations
summary: the method of graphical analysis for the evaluation of sequential data (tissue and blood concentrations
over time) in which the test substance is irreversibly trapped in the system has been expanded. a simpler derivation
of the original analysis is presented. general equations are derived that can be used to analyze tissue uptake data
when when the blood-plasma concentration of the test substance cannot be easily measured. general equations are 
also derived for situations when trapping of the test substance is incomplete, and for a combination of these two 
conditions. these derivations are independent of the actual configuration of the compartmental system being
analyzed and show what information can be obtained for the period when the reversible compartments are in effective
steady state with the blood. the approach is also shown to result in equations with at least one less nonlinear 
term than those derived from direct compartmental analyis. specific applications of these equations are 
illustrated for a compartmental system with one reversible region, and one irreversible region. 
introduction: the study of the movement of solute molecues across tissue capillaries and their localization within
selected tissue of both animal and human subjects has been greatly facilitated by the use of tomographic machines. 
these images can provide sequential measurements over time of regional tissue concentrations. the general test 
protocol involves injecting a test substance into the blood, and then measuring the concentration in the blood
and surrounding tissues over time. the data may then be analyzed by a number of methods to ascertain the desired
parameters of the system. 
one method of analysis that has been proposed is the graphical analysis of multiple time points, and an equation
has been developed for a very general model. when certain measurable quantities are plotted against other 
measurable quantities, the equation indicates that a straight line should result. the slope and intercept of the 
line yield useful parameters of the system. this article provides a simpler derivation of the graphical analysis
technique, and discusses its potential for more general application in systems other than the study of the blood
brain barrier or deoxyglucose uptake. a description of how graphical analysis can be used to analyze tissue uptake
data alone, when blood-plasma concentrations of the substance cannot be measured, and the conditions necessary for
this analysis to be valid are given. 

analysis: the system to be analyzed is assumed to be a homogenous tissue region or regions that can be reliably 
assayed for the total amount of the test substance. initially it is assumed that the region will be perfused by a
varying but known concentration of the test substance in the blood, and for simplicity that the plasma concentration
represents the concentration of test substance that is exchangeable with tissue. the tissue region may consist of a
number of compartments that communicate reversibly with blood, which can occur directly or indirectly through 
intermediate compartments. there must be at least one or more other compartments that the test substance enters in 
an irreversible manner. 
the rate constant K is the steady state rate of uptake into the system (when the blood plasma level Cpo is constant)
divided by Cpo, R = K*Cpo, therefore only equations involving K need to be discussed, since these equations can
easily be transformed into those involving R. 
the overall uptake rate constant K for the system described above has been shown to be:
K = Am(inf) / integral(0->inf)[Cp(t)*dt], where Am(inf) is the amount of material in the region at infinite time,
and Cp(t) is the blood plasma concentration at time t and represents the concentration of test substance in the
plasma that is freely exchangeable with tissue. 
thus, imagine the experiment continued for infinite time but with the plasma concentration equal to 0 for times>t,
for this situation: integral(0->t)[Cp(tau)*dtau] = integral(0->inf)[Cp(tau)*dtau]. 
since the blood plasma concentration is assumed to be 0 for times >t, the amount that is left in the system at
infinite time is equal to the amount in the system at t minus the amount that leaves the system after t. the latter
quantity is the fraction of the amount in the interchangeable compartments that leaves the system (ie, does not
enter the irreversible compartments) as well as any material in the blood plasma. 
thus,
Am(inf) = Am(t) - VpCp(t) - f(t)*Ae(t), where Ae(t) is the amount in the reversible compartment at t, Vp is the 
effective plasma volume of the tissue region such that VpCp is the exchangeable amount of test substance in the 
blood, and f(t) is the fraction of the amount in the reversible compartments that goes back into the blood plasma
and leaves the system. the fraction f(t) is is a function of the parameters of the systme and the relative amounts
of the test substance within each of the reversible compartments.  















