pay per call exposed:
why do most people fail at PPC?
can't fully maximize opportunity
don't realize how important mobile traffic is, and how easy it converts
try for a few weeks, fail, and give up (no dedication)
its more than just buying ads - need to think about the customer's needs.
they are money but not business driven - you need to think long term 

the guy claims he makes 700$ some days in profit, which is relatively passive. 

what the remainder of the course will teach:
1) the basics of pay per call and why vendors love affiliates in ppc marketing
2) list of free and paid tools and sources of data to power the marketing
3) best way to setup landing page, ads, and keywords
4) why understanding customer behavior is important to win
5) how to use social media to extend your reach
6) real examples of strategies and tactics used over the years
7) how to action what has been learned in pro tips
8) how to be cost efficient in outsourcing tedious tasks in order to build the business

why pay per call? the rise of the smartPHONE - smartphones are phones, so pay-per-call has a lot of upside these days
calls are much higher in terms of conversion rates than clicks - simply due to the effort of picking up the phone

keep phone numbers at the top of your mind when it comes to:
1) advertising strategy
2) including phone numbers in page titles for all your organic search traffic
3) including phone numbers with a tap to call button on mobile landing page is key
4) incorporating a phone number alongside lead forms
5) add the phone number everywhere - print ads, signs, etc - its the single most important call to action

items people need rather than want, ie repair vs entertainment, are better for pay per call. 
three basic categories
1) mobile preferred ads - everything before the click that involves how you talk to your mobile users, what you say,
what you show them, and how you engage with them, whether they are calling or coming to your site, how they interact with you
	google and bing 
2) call only campaigns - google used to offer something called click to call, but now they've taken it up a notch and give
a whole campaign to use for this particular type of targeting
3) call tracking 

what is pay per call marketing and what niches are profitable? 
typical ppc sales flow:
1) network creates ppc campaign in the system
2) affiliate applies to campaign and selects tracking phone numbers
3) affiliate runs advertising with phone number
4) customer sees phone number and calls
5) call is tracked to the affiliate and campaign in the system
6) call is connected to the advertiser, caller stays active for the needed duration
7) affiliate gets paid 

how to find and apply to pay-per-call networks?
networks:
1) ring partner (personally recommended)
2) max bounty (great support, fast payout)
3) astoria
4) mundo media
5) commission junction
6) exact match media
7) call market place
8) palo media (pay per call blueprint) 
9) f5 media
10) goojibear
11) hypertarget

when applying: 
1) take time filling out the form
2) give details on how you plan to promote offers (the more details, the better)
	mention google CALL ONLY ads, as well as mobile banner ads, etc
	say main source of traffic will be google

all major networks offer the below toolset in your login area: 
IVR - interactive voice response gives you the ability to create custom automated phone menus
search keyword tracking - allows you to track calls back to a specific search engine and keyword, which
keywords are doing well or underperforming, so you can adjust bids (advanced tracking) 
custom call treatments enable you to track and handle calls based on time of day, caller's geographic location, and IVR key presses
make sure you understand and use these tools to their maximum potential! 

how to find and apply to the right offers: 
pro tip: find offers that are 24hr, least amount of restrictions, short call duration (<1min30), and country-wide.

offer approval schtick: "please approve me for this offer. i will promote by targeting your target customer using search media and mobile search ads"
"as well as promote it on my site, which has an audience of your core customer. i have read the restrictions and will abide by them." 

Please approve me for this offer. i will promote by targeting your target customer using search media and mobile search ads. I have read the restrictions and will abide by them.

landing page:

make a single website in word press of a high level single topic, add hotline to the domain name (ie, legalhotline, callerhotline, etc). 
buy your own theme for 30-50$ at themeforest, and use it for all your websites 
use something like unbounce to create a landing page, instead of making your own. 

methods for cheap CPC rates, high quality score and SEO help:

keywords tools:
semrush (paid, but free trial)
	find keywords not listed in adwords/bing, find low cpc keywords that competition or business you are marketing ranks for, buy these keywords
	find competitor banner ads
ubersuggest (free) - for long tail keyword discovery
	get thousands of keyword ideas from real user queries 
broad match modifier
	get cheap cpcs, discover new keywords, reduce the chance of unrelated keywords triggering in your ads

how much to bid? CPC should be 50% of the payout, this will be tweaked but generally speaking is a good start, will allow you to get a good number
of impressions giving good click data to read on and optimize. should start spending around 50$/day to get reliable data 

local targeting to get the urgent customer:
key tactics to target local customers and win: create a list of all states/major cities
using these cities and towns, create a list of broad match modifier keywords
example +appliance +repair +miamia, +appliance +repaire +Clear Water, +Appliance +Repaire +Sarasota, +Appliance +Repaire +Florida
create ad groups by state, which will help relevancy score
ensure your landing page is all about appliance repair in florida, and has all cities/towns listed on it, or make separate city pages for ultimate
control and greater relevant quality score. include zip code as well, which have very low cpc
use broad to find the phrases people use, and then put those phrases in exact or phrase match
use this link to get a list of cities within a certain radius: http://www.studiokraft.com/index.php/action/find_cities_in_radius

organizing keywords - important for your own sanity as well as quality score
target call volume for specific keyword, and later attach a phone number to the ad group. 
first tactic - find biggest competitor, or company you are promoting for, and get a huge list of auto parts from fiverr. get specific ads using 
keyword generators. 
do some specific stuff in adsense to eliminate wastage, use google adwords editor to easily add tons of keywords fast

secrets to bid on brand names for easy conversions. some offers don't tell you not to bid on brand names, these gold mines. 
you can also search keywords of brands that do allow bidding, and use them for your own offers. scrape the keywords using google maps (can be done automatically)
and then use them to generate keyword strings 

using negative keywords to ensure efficient spend:
negatives create a virtuous circle, lowering costs and increasing revenues. 
negative keyword list: 
http://www.clixmarketing.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/worlds-biggest-negative-keyword-list.txt

google and bing account limits: 
10000 campaigns (including active and paused)
20,000 ad groups per campaign
20000 ad group targeting items per ad group

ad limits:
300 image/gallery ads
50 text and non-image
4 million active or paused ads per account

mater ad extensions to win in search: ad extensions are a gold mine and one of the most underutilized weapons, they allow you to take up more space on the serp
ads that use both click to call and location extension on mobile see an average CTR of 6-8%. 
use sitelinks to direct people to more than one webpage using only one ad, and also increases click through rate.
call only and call extensions - a must for mobile ads
review extensions - help you stand out more
callout extensions - additional keywords or benefits of business, 

what does call extension do for your ad?
encourages calls by showing your number on the ad
display a clickable call button
cost the same as a headline click (CPC) 
idea - have only the call button, no landing page? more clicks=> only clicking on call button..
benefits of using call extension when promoting pay-per-call offers:
easy for people to call you on the go
can share numbers across ads, allowing you to target ad groups by keyword topics and know which are profitable
no wasted clicks, exclusively calls. can match to the business hours, so that it shows only when they will take your calls
call extensions increase CTR by 6-8%

using call only ads - the most powerful ppc ad types

tools from google: learn more about your customer shopping habits: 
https://shopping.thinkwithgoogle.com
explore trends and popularity of objects across the US, all live stats across industries, platforms
https://shopping.thinkwithgoogle.com/tools/youtube-dashboard.html
https://shopping.thinkwithgoogle.com/tools/customer-journey-to-online-purchase.html
use benchmarks to understand how customers react to different marketing channels 

http://www.richmediagallery.com/tools/benchmarks
understand how your display campaigns compare to the rest of the industry

mobile in the purchase journey:
https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/tools/mobile-purchase-journey.html

ubersuggest - get long tail keywords for lower cpc

making your ads stand out: 
title: always use dynamic text feature, adds the user's keywords to your title.
text: first letter of all important words should capitalize, all caps for more important words, use a strong call to action
display url: put your main keyword as a fake sub-domain
use the registered or trademark symbol to stand out more and look legit
create urgency: call now, etc

use custom IVR for more conversions - go to fiverr and get professional sounding voice

use call-now ads on facebook 

use ring pools to track search keywords

use exact zip codes
google, bing, facebook are main traffic sources
local space - find a way to automate this 
scrapebox
adplexity - get an idea of what ads are being run in a particular niche
the big picture: who am i trying to convert?


























