figures:
1) contrast/grating, different subjects and different responses 
2) grating inside/outside the scanner
3) retinotopic tuning curves in response to drifting grating, retinotopic mapping

paper pending in jneuroscience (1/4)
add pilot data
focus on specific structural measures (folding and distance) 
	=> cancellation profiles paper 


what do you need for the structure comparisons? curvature and distance
new ROIs - use ICA to get the ROI, instead of correlations, then take the top x voxels in the ROI weight map. 
Brainstorm necessary? to get the leadfield matrix and compare that to each gamma response, it might be useful

phd presentation: 
1: healthy human EEG what is it - cortical folding and distance (show equation)
2: variability how much and what causes it? (show visual stimulus contrast 5%,33%,100%) and differen subjects
	what is an EEG signal?- ERP and ERSP, correlation between bands
3: why do we care? (autism study, Dave's study)
4: current literature - different studies and weaknesses (confounds)
5: my approach - retinotopic mapping (avoiding confounds, literature)
6: methods (retinotopic stimulus)
7: discussion
	-investigate spatial specificity of different bands
	-investigate intra subject variability
	-investigate inter-subject variability
	-investiage intra-band variability 

so basically, the presentation will go like this: EEG is the most widely used functional measure of human brain activity.
EEG measures the electrical potential, and these are the ways of quantifying EEG: ERP, ERSP. Both these measures are
relevant, but we don't understand why there is such great variability between participants. 
as EEG is a functional measure, we look for functional differences between stimulus types. However this can be obscured
by inter-subject variability due to non-brain measures. 

structural basis of healthy human EEG variability - slides

01: healthy human EEG - scalp potential - dipolar neurons
02: scalp potential - distance and curvature (other measures set to 0)
03: EEG signal in detail: ERP and ERSP (frequency bands (power), latency (phase), etc)
05: EEG response to stimulus (functional) - link this to gamma band macaque
04: EEG inter-subject response to stimulus - some subjects show no respones - link to macaque
06: other factors responsible? return to equation (distance and curvature)
07: curvature - no empirical studies (introduce IO). 
08: distance - no studies using ROI analysis
09: others: skull thickness, etc
10: why distance and curvature? return to EEG as a functional measure, ERSP
11: literature - show autism study, response to complex stimulus and grating
12: show all subjects - functional differences obscured - need to normalize signal, quantify relative contr.
13: methods: how to get anatomical a-priori
14: retinotopic mapping
15: functional mapping - BOLD FMRI - physiology
16: BOLD-FMRI - limitations and pitfalls - high resolution EPI
17: structural measures - T1, UTE, electrodes
18: EEG retinotopy - response to the stimulus
19: flow chart (Retinotopic activation -> masking -> electrode analysis)
20: 




























