phd_ideas

idea #1: structural basis of EEG power variability - all frequencies 0-100Hz (specifically, gamma and alpha/beta and possibly theta)
	this has to be >= 1/2 of the acquisition. ideally, an experiment before the scan using the eye tracker, 40 minutes of
data acquisition withint the scanner (simultaneous EEG-FMRI retinotopy) and an experiment before/after the scan during the
resting state. 

you want to have all the data available to infer things about subjects based on their out of scan resting state EEG alone.
so basically, you need resting state inside/outside the scanner, and a more specific mapping paradigm, also inside/outside the  
scanner (retinotopy). 

then, using out of scanner data only, try to reconstruct functional/structural measures derived from FMRI based on EEG alone. 
so 20 minutes EEG before, 35 minutes retinotopy during, and then a continuous stimulation and a resting state inside the scanner
to examine coupling during stimulation and rest. (10 minutes for both - use a fast multiband sequence with decent resolution). 

if you can get 35 minutes of retinotopy, that should be pretty good SNR for the wedge. rotate both ways, and then combine

alternating eccentricity to control gamma peak frequency - effects on the BOLD response. 

a task inside the scanner - systematic motion, to see the effects of inside the scanner motion on gamma band activity
a discrimination task before the scan, outside the scanner only. how to distinguish between two populations
for OHBM poster - add more stats, like cortical surface area, cortical thickness, etc

cortico-cortical and cortico-thalamic coupling as a function of state

alpha-bold coupling to investigate structural basis of alpha? where do you see strongest coupling with BOLD-FMRI, and how is that
related to each subject's individual alpha rhythm. 

you want to solve the riddle of the components - all the components have different spectral signatures and spatial maps, can you 
explain their origin, in order to infer things about subjects with strange or bad components. 

you want to use coupling to infer anatomical or hemodynamic parameters from EEG data alone

what about controlling peak frequency on an intra-subject level? you can do that with contrast, but what is the functional analog? 
an FMRI response to reduced contrast is probably just a decreased %change in the same voxels as before. 

two basic experiments: coupling, and retinotopy. you need at least 30 minutes of retinotopy to ensure adequate SNR. 
for the coupling, you want to do 30 minutes 10 minutes each of continuous stimulation, baseline, and eyes closed. (rotating grating
for the continuous gamma stimulations). compare the coupling during continuous, eyes closed, and resting eyes open. 

gradient denoising: take gradients in proximity which are similar to the gradient you are currently subtracting, average this diff
across many electrodes and select top % for subtraction. use squared weighting for subtraction indices (probably doesn't matter)
seems to give the strongest gamma you've seen yet. 
bcg denoising: what about a non-local means denoising that uses spatial information? a spatial NLM that subtracts mean of similar 
spatial patterns (based on the frequency range of interest) 

another paper - based on the denoising (if spatial BCG works) - spatial nlm bcg subtraction and selective gradient artifact 
subtraction yields high quality gamma acquired simultaneously with multiband BOLD
doesn't seem to work so well - is there a reason this type of spatial correlation wouldn't go well? 

temporal nlm, but again, combining the indices from all channels simultaneously to select the epoch to subtract (anything else
seems to mess up the data). 
temporal nlm seems to work better, also, it seems to work better the more you reduce your comparison window size.













