pipeline: 
fmri: motion correct, bandpass filter, blur
eeg: (Scalp) -> grad, bcg, ica, remove components, back-project
     (source) -> head model (openmeeg volume), noise/data cov, dipole source localization, filtering 3 components, avg power,
	-> save to disk -> warp to EPI, load with BOLD in matlab, correlate 


single subject - do everything manually in brainstorm, then load and process sources automatically and save

4 separate paradigms - retinotopic mapping, full field stimulation (event-related), and movie/rest (continuous) 

all subjects - process them in brainstorm, and then get their matlab grid using a separate script. 
fix the script, so it doesn't fuck up every time you restart brainstorm

brainstorm processing: 
step 1: EEG - denoise with components, save merged gamma scripts (for signal/noise covariance) 


what are all the files that you need? 
1) EEG-FMRI correlations (most important - each voxel a source-BOLD frequency specific correlation curve)
2) EEG-stimulus correlations (all bands) - each voxel a spectrum of EEG vs stimulus correlations 
3) BOLD-stimulus correlations - each voxel a correlation coefficient of BOLD-stimulus correlations 	

each subject - do all correlations with all frequency bands, voxel by voxel 
the first thing you need is just to get the time courses or power values for each stimulus condition/state, and save those as matlab
files, so basically a matrix of time courses 1 for each freqency band (45*3000*735 or something) which isn't too large. 
the correlations and whatnot can then be computed after. 
one special case - gauvin's first gamma scan EEG cuts off early...just base it all on the MRI triggers (when you do the correlation)

once you have the source-space power values for all subjects, and the BOLD as well - what is next? 
single voxel correlations - EEG vs BOLD, in all subjects - this is the first result, frequency specific coupling curves in each voxel
grand average across all tasks, subjects, and states result #1
then, look for differences in coupling in a single voxel across states and stimulus types - 
ie, the single trial EEG-BOLD correlations, computed for each voxel or within a ROI, 
differences from rest to movie, and what does this depend on result #2
different HRFs, from rest to movie, and from rest/movie to stimulus - average kernel within a large ROI, movie-rest-stim

FMRI denoising - removing bad components, and blurring to 8-12mm FWHM - use a matlab script to get good components 

registration - put them all in standard space before computing correlations? or apply it to the correlation maps?
also, what about the registration itself - do an EPI based atlas, or a T1 based atlas? try a T1 based atlas with your data only
T1 based atlas, and then flirt+fnirt all subjects to that atlas (After 2 step atlas creation), then bring all correlation maps/hrf
maps/whatever to T1 space for final averaging 

make the T1 atlas (linear, then do a nonlinear fnirt registration of each subject to the atlas) - you can put these on the other cpu
to run them faster. 

get the greg data, and the stimulus time courses for the retinotopy sometime tonight or tomorrow


getting some wack results in tegan...bad grid format, maybe fixed this. still, need to get 4 good subjects and see how the results 
look before going back to denoising EEG data. by the end of today, should have voxel-wise correlations for the 4 subjects
average movie, rest, and others and grand average (maybe add valerie also?)























