plan of action: this week:

12 hrs work minimum per day
accomplish the following:
1) conversion for rehab campaign - work on landing page and ads, test more landing pages and facebook ads, try to find a way to get around google's restrictions.
	find a way to track landing page conversions, and user behavior on the landing page (pixels)
2) finish distance vs gamma paper - all data should be computed by tomorrow, by tomorrow afternoon you should have all relevant results in sub-plot form, create
a large spreadsheet, discuss with greg/kevin, and finish the final version by friday. 
3) work out 2x, set new pbs in all lifts. 
4) start 3-4 new campaigns, try to re-do some old campaigns (fire/water damage), apply to new campaigns, start testing landing pages on other types of campaign.
	you want to get good at creating excellent looking landing pages from scratch. sleek design, to the point, and SEO optimized. 
5) rough copy of didactic seminar complete - and choose the topic 
	topic - effects of 60Hz power line noise on brain and body

failing hard with display network traffic. keep pruning your other campaigns, and keep adding more campaigns, (1 per day), continue this for the next 6 months
but don't spend more than 1-2hrs per day. if you aren't breaking even by then time to cut and run. in the meantime, focus hard on science and the new forex app,
try to get back into unity development and get the forex app out so you can start making money with that as well. you're making ~200 downloads a day now, before
long you should be averaging ~10$ per day and if you can get 2-3 more solid apps out, you might be able to make ~100$ per day from apps alone. 

tonight: get matlab installed/working or email kevin and get a paid version. start up a new offer
keep adding campaigns day by day, and cutting back on crappy campaigns and keywords. at the end of each week, prune the campaigns that aren't performing and keywords

no more display network/lp for now...

6 months * 5 campaigns per week * 4 weeks per month = 120 new campaigns total

new forex game - think about how you want to market this, if you can sell it online for windows/mac, even better. release it on mobile but market a landing page 
as well for windows/mac users. 

new improvements to adwords campaigns: add the space padding before/after words, and get a list of all locations (towns, cities, states, and abbr. states), use these
to filter for intent.
start exploring the adwords api, see if you can use this to set up campaigns more quickly. 

RJ45CS24w*

today: finish figures 1&2, and get home security offer up and running. start thinking about getting back into forex application coding.   

keep setting up one campaign a night, try to nail down more specific keywords so you filter out anything but high intent calls. do this for the next 6 months 
while continuing to make incremental improvements to your methods. 


