poster_coupling

power dependence: 
main results: 

EEG-BOLD coupling 
gamma and alpha/beta during stimulus
alpha/beta during rest/movie
time lag difference, 

power dependence of single trial and spontaneous coupling 
trial-by-trial correlations (event related paradigm)
spontaneous coupling (Resting state and movie)

spatial extent of EEG-BOLD correlations varies with brain state

resting state (eyes closed)
continuous stimulation (eyes open) 
event-related stimulation (eyes open) 

still denoising the gradient - removing each channel separately, or using the same indices for each channel makes a massive difference
why? when you use the same indices for all, the noise is correlated. when you don't you remove sources of common noise, or add more
noise 

alpha power extracted with gamma weights, and other alpha power? compare that to the more diffuse gamma power, in other source 
locations. ie, coupling of narrow and broadband alpha, area dependence of this coupling.

differences in EEG lead field matrice accounts for >50% of inter-subject visually induced gamma power variability

more advanced BCG denoising? still finding like 4-6 BCG components in some subjects, which is not cool...although you are getting
better alpha/beta response now than before
multiple time-average correction? do it on small, medium, and large window time series and average teh results?


coupling vs EEG: coupling as a function of time. 
coupling depends on your metric - raw power, baseline corrected power, WHAT? 
broadband? baseline corrected absolute of all frequency bands - maybe BOLD = broadband, ie is more correlated to single trial 
broadband power than anything else...this actually matches the heuristic model (bold is negative alpha and positive gamma) 

investigating the spatial correspondance between lead field correlated ICA components and BOLD FMRI functional network weight maps
- which components match the time series of power and also have spatial overlap? obviously, occipital components and visual network
components will overlap because they both respond to the stimulus and the localization is easy. however, what about the resting 
state DMN vs alpha in parietal components, and lingual gyrus? 
(if true, a possible title could be: bursts of oscillatory parietal alpha underly hemodynamic changes in DMN)
if you can predict the strength of someone's DMN based on their oscillatory alpha correlations - a strong alpha peak in parietal
components indicates a robust DMN - what is a strong DMN, exactly? good correlations between the hubs? 

compute baseline, task, and post-stimulus separately, and show a log spectrum for each subject. fail. 
you can just use the eegfiltfft + sum + square method, to better quantify temporal fluctuations - try averaging across the good
components only in these tasks and see how it looks - or just look in the posterior electrodes, after subtracting out bad components.
ideally, you would subtract out all bad components, and then source localize the remaining neural activity 

the first figure - a grand average inside the scanner ERSP (vs possibly an outside the scanner ERSP?) 

coupling_pipeline
1) gradient denoising (mostly done), 2) bcg denoising (mostly done), 3) time-frequency computation (try % change?) 


bottom of tutorials freesurfer to brainstorm
tutorial how to simulate sources
comparing real electrode location vs standard coordinates vs FMRI activation center of mass - gammma, alpha/beta, ERP. 

simultaneous source-space power vs FMRI - state dependent HRF and spatial pattern. 
state and area dependence of hemodynamic response function in human occipital cortex 







