pay per call musings

most of your clicks are coming from broad matches to unrelated terms, but terms that get picked up easily by google. 
all in all your keywords getting the most impressions aren't bad. you just need to be patient...wait till the end of the week using these 6-7 campaigns, and just see
what happens. 

tomorrow and the next day: work on science and get the paper ready. weekend - start back to work on ads.
the plan: do wed-thurs-fri science, and sat su mon tues adwords. 
wed-fri, just trim your current ad groups, and make sure it doesn't get out of control. 
tonight - add one more campaign (choose from the best in astoria)

remove and, for, etc, and then take unique keywords. 
one big problem with your keywords: too short, so too vague. need to get way more specific and maybe put some higher bids. 

be more selective with the keywords and increase your bids - right now you're still picking up a lot of junk things like "pay credit" are obviously
not very likely to be due to credit card debt but rather someone just paying off their card. 

you need to find ways to get the traffic that are less intuitive but cheap. for example ,you're finding lots of claims calls, but not many people
signing up for new insurance policies. if you are more selective with the keywords this shouldn't happen as much. 

another thing you need to do is let campaigns run for longer. fire/water increase the bid (they suggest 50% of payout, but lets increase more slowly and 
gradually weed out the bad keywords.

gradually weed out the bad keywords by increaseing the bid slowly. let the data do the talking, but make sure you're able to acquire enough data. 
make your goal to not get any crappy clicks. if you can reduce the losses, the wins should take care of themselves. every click that leads to a caller 
hanging up because they thought it was something other than what it was is a loss. 

keep trimming the fat and gradually raising the max CPC. do this for a couple weeks and you should start to see profit. 