a practical guide to robust GABA detection in the human brain by j-difference spectroscopy using a standard volume coil
abstract: GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the human brain and has been implicated in several neurpsychiatric
disorders. in vivo human gaba concentrations are near the detection limit using MRS (1mM), and overlap with more abundant 
compounds, therefore spectral editing is generally necessary to detect GABA. in previous reports, GABA spectra detected by 
j-difference spectroscopy vary considerably in appearance. the factors that affect GABA spectra and the conditions necessary for
for robust acquisition of j-difference spectra from arbitrary brain regions has been evaluated.  variations in spectral quality
can be explained in part by the incoherent addition of transients that results from shot to shot frequency and phase variations.
an automated time-domain spectral alignment strategy that enables the reproducible acquisition of high-quality gaba spectra at 3t
with a standard 30cm T/R volume coil is presented. representative GABA spectra from human frontal lobe, an area where susceptibility
induced frequency and pase variations are especially troublesome, are presented, demonstrating the robustness of the acquisition
and data handling strategy. 

introduction: routine detection and robust quantification are complicated by overlapping co-resonant peaks including creatine
and the macromolecular resonances. direct quantification of gaba therefore is generally not feasible. additional methods such 
as spectral editing have been proposed, which explot j-coupling of GABA C-4 resonance of interest at 3.01 ppm to the GABA c-3
protons at 1.91 ppm. j-difference editing or multiple quantum filters can be used, j-difference spectroscopy is inherently more 
sensitive to experimental factors such as instrument instability or physiologicall induced frequency and phase variations, than
single shot methods. these experimental imperfections also result in cumulative errors that diminish the advantage of coherent 
averaging. even with surface coils, studies typically require hundreds of acquisitions. this article outlines the practical 
requirements for reproducible acquisition of high-quality data consistent with known features of the GABA spin system from a 
standard 3T research scanner. in addition to the needs of accurate timing and adequate crusher gradient areas, the importance
of acquiring independent phase-cycled shots and implementing an adequate post-processing strategy to minimize the impact of 
frequency and phase variations is emphasized. it is shown that some part of the broad component at 3.01 ppm that is typically 
attributed to co-edited macromolecules is suppressed with this approach, suggesting this contamination is partly an avoidable
consequence of incoherent average. 

theory: 