new_forex_strategy

you have a histogram for each increment - ie, the number of times the price moved x distance in y minutes.
based on this, you can construct probablility distributions, saying price will move a certain amount 
constructing the pdf - price is at 1.0005, when 5 minutes ago it was at 0.9995. that means it has moved 10 pips in 5 minutes
which is quite alot. so, the probability at that time point, in the 5 minute range, is low. 
using this to construct an indicator - each time point has a vector for n ranges
to get the value for each point in the vector, look at the difference from that point to the range point, and get the cumulative 
distribution for that value. 
low probability evens are definitely followed by more activity, ie, larger variability across epochs

whats a simpler way to do this? standard deviation +/- of the previous scores

indicators 
RSI relative strength index
MACD - moving average convergence divergence
rainbow moving average
bollinger bands
average directional index
parabolic SAR

new strategy: 
mvg doesn't seem to affect it much - try stds.
after optimizing stds, what else can you add? 
RSI, moving average, maybe a different bollinger band? stochastic, parabolic, RSI (tomorrow try RSI) 
try to optimize them independently, and then combine them to see if you get an improvement (instead of running them all in a giant loop
 
how to improve the strategy? filter with a moving average? 
can also use a weighted or exponential moving average to plot the bollinger bands. probably won't affect much, but worth a shot
the minimum you need in live testing is a SMOOTHLY ascending average profit curve 
combining stochastic and bollinger bands - set an overbought/sold threshold, and only enter the trade if that threshold is reached

things to optimize - moving average period of stochastic, smoothing period of stochastic,mvg period of bollinger band, std of 
bollinger band, stochastic threshold, stochastic threshold direction...
need to combine these in a way that lets them have many trades (ie, not discrete entries). 
parabolic SAR for exit? 

bollinger bands:
mvg period, stdthreshold, price entry/exit (cutting down/cutting up) 
so far - price hits the upper band at std ~3.5, sell, and vice versa seems to be optimal. 
test 4 configurations - cutting up, cutting down, buy, sell. save in a spreadsheet. 	
cut up sell - lots of trades, smoothest profit curve - how to adjust this to make it even better? maybe a macd to indicate its in
a range? 

adding in the MACD, and using it as a filter (-3, +3), seems to help quite a bit - now you you need to get the number of trades up
to around 1000-1500 (lower the filter to -3 or -2, and play with the period a bit, and you should hit your goal of 20 currencies,
1500 trades, average 2.5 pip profit (after spread annd comission). 

stochastic: 
period, mvg smooth, stochastic entry/exit (cutting down/cutting up)
stochastic doesn't appear to help at all. 

williams %r - supposed to tell if it is trading near a previous high/low or support/resistance. 

cci - commodity channel index - like a price macd divided by the standard deviation. 

average directional index
upmove = current hight - previous high
downmove = previous low - current low
if upmove > downmove & upmove > 0, +dm = upmove, else +dm = 0.
if downmove > upmove & downmove >0, -dm = downmove, else -dm =0. 

pivot points: high + low + close/3

support and resistance: 
R1 = 2*p - low
S1 = 2*p - high
R2 = p + (high-low), R3 = p+ 2*(high-low)
S2 = p - (high-low), S3 = p- 2*(high-low)

tonight: optimize stochastic period, and bollinger band mvg. 
tomorrow - optimize RSI and MACD, and add oscillator box to the trading window. 
other things to try - bollinger bands less than or greater than as a filter, and then use the crossover as entry. 

next steps: 
0) find a strategy in matlab that gives >2.5 pips in >1500 trades over the top 20 pairs AFTER subtracting spread and comission. 
	you can consider this the minimum needed to beat spread, slippage, comission, and swap rates 
	this will be 1500*2.5*20 = 75,000 pips over the last 5 years = 15,000 pips/year. 
	some other general criteria - profit curve can not have any extended flat/decrease points (ie, >2 months)
				    - stop should be less than 150 (to avoid UPL effects), r>0.985
1) draw in java (offline) and reproduce results. then, visualize the trader in action with indicators. 
2) load code into dukascopy, repeat on historical data up to current point, code email queries etc. 
3) forward test for 2-3 months 
4) go live 

a new paradigm - if you're selling strategies, you can relax these criteria quite a bit. ie, all you need is the appearance
that your product is successful, over the trial period (2 weeks) - and you also don't want it to lose money for the customers,
ie it should be roughly break even, or make around 5-10% a year. 

do three things in parallel - set up your website with the forex auto-trader sales pitch, add the auto-trader to your app, and
get the auto-trader working in dukascopy demo account, so you can start playing with your own money in the future. 

after optimizing on the bollinger band mvg length, optimize the macd mvg lengths. 

today: consolidate all the existing dukascopy and java code, get it running on your new laptop, optimize indices, 
** test the strategy on bid as well as ask data - should give the exact same results, if it doesn't, you have a problem. 
parse all the data (use pitrading for futures and ETFs, use dukascopy for indices and currencies) in matlab, create directories
int 25mb chunks
4 total directories (currencies, etfs, indices, futures) 
=> should have around 80 instruments total. 
sorting the forex data - have two modes, small (compressed) and full? if you save only the close data, you can make the files smaller
get the overnight swaps and work that into your trades - # nights*swap rate. 
goals today: get the strategy working in java and complete one blog post (buy a new domain that matches your business)
domain ideas - datadrivenforex, forexscience, tradescience, mathtrader,forexmath, forexbot, mathbot, pipbot,pipscience,autopips,
robopips, easypips, foxtrader, autofx, pipacademy, 
have different accounts trading different strategies? 
try to average 2 blogposts a day- once you have 50 blog posts, start buying some traffic. 
remove the take-profit parameter, as it adds more complexity and doesn't necessarily help  
tomorrow - finish the java version and run it on all currencies to make sure its working - email dukascopy for unlimited account
write another blog post or two (one on moving averages, one on MACD) 
keep tinkering with the strategy in the other matlab window - try to get a profit curve above 0.995, use volume

one way you could possibly squeeze more profit out of the 
looks like you'll need to add another pip or so to the spread, to make sure its in line with oanada spreads (dukascopy is fine, but
most of the clients buying your strategy will probably be from mt4). 
so far, the best seems to be a take profit and stop, combined with the bollinger band exit (about 100 pips better than the bb only)
however, you still haven't managed to produce a smooth profit curve from start to end. 
volume seems to help quite a bit...interesting. adds 800 pips (at least) to average profit, and smooths out profit curve quite a bit.
seems to work best when you exclude high volume events...maybe because thats when the bollinger bands get smashed and price goes
straight through? you're essentially using a retrace strategy, when price hits the band, you wait for it to bounce back..
adding another pip to the transaction costs - lets see how this turns out.
can still make some decent profits, but obviously not nearly as good as without the extra cost.
adding one pip makes it about even with other platforms such as oanda, and you also have to take into account slippage, so its probably
a more accurate assessment of what to expect during live. 
IF you can reproduce the 0.995 profit curve with 1.55 transaction cost + spread, you can consider it good enough to move to the next
step. 

another option is the trailing stop - a smarter way to exit trades...any other options to improve profit? you want higher mean profit
ie pips per trade, and a smoother profit curve. 
whelp, it appears as if std 3.75 and mvg of 50 is the best configuration after all (even with volume). 
are there any other filters that could be useful? MACD, stochastic, etc are all crap. maybe a std filter applied to the entry,
ie, if the standard deviation is < 10,20,30, pips etc, execute a trade. 
tomorrow - std filter (enter only if std is < or > than a certain amount. (can optimize this on different periods and mvgs)
also, implementing a trailing stop/take profit - if in a trade, and price is going in your favor, exit.
	-this is something that should be optimized separately. ie, you should be able to do the random entry and see if you can
	optimize this.
today - test the trailing stop, test std on previous 5 bars
trailing stop - simple, just take something like the square root of the current difference, (with a static stop) and if it gets below 
that, exit. 

adding in the std filter helps a bit, but the number of trades is pretty low (ie, an average of 150 per 5 years which is like 1/2 weeks
which isn't in itself a problem, except if the trades go longer, then you have issues with the rollover rates. 
check the average trade duration - and divide that by the average rollover rate - assume worst case 2/3 of trades are in the opposite
direction to the rates, and average overnight swap is 0.25 pips.

by the end of today - validate the strategy in dukascopy historical data. 
tomorrow - launch the demo (with emails) 
first - just get the data, and launch visualize some values from a single currency
today - get a jframe that takes up the whole screen, and you can switch between currencies, and display trades. 
switching between strategies? you'll have a bunch of buttons that allow you to switch the currently subscribed instrument
also, make it so you can maximize the window. 

what you need now - first, just get the previous x data points (maybe 1 month or something), and do it for all the currencies.
then, feed all the currencies data and switch between them. 
lastly, add the real entry/exit and slippage control etc. 
first, test it one last time on as much data as you can get 
seems to work on all the data, recent data, and distant data.
got everything working with the buttons and display, tomorrow, the placing of actualy trades (switch to 10s bars)
and the email notifications

stuff remaining for JForex strategy - 
input data - from the onBar() method, check volume > 0
send emails - send each time a trade is triggered, with account balance etc
	have a summary email (where you send summaries to each person on the list, and another one where you send updates for all)
check the spreads, if < 2 || < mean spread*2, trade, else don't trade. 
add a leverage checker - keep it under 30:1 at all times. shouldn't be a problem as the algorithm only makes 3 trades/day on avg. 
load the parameters from a text file - so dukascopy can't f you over and steal your strategy 
fix the spread thing - calculate the sell exit based on the bid, and the buy exit based on the offer. 


leverage 100:1 during week, 30:1 during weekends. so if you have 10k, you can have 300k max

different strategies - if you can get complementary strategies that would also be good, ie, strategies that work better at different 
times of year, which would further smooth out the profit curve. 
should add a zoom in bar to the screen, 

what do you know about the strategies so far? it looks like volume is a good indicator, and buy low/sell high (based on bollinger 
bands) is also a good indicator. is there a way to improve the bollinger band paradigm? 
another type of indicator? what about another metric for variability? variance instead of standard deviation? 
what about an indicator based on the rank of the previous price, ie, the # of points up/down
optimize over - rank length and rank threshold
another metric - weighted rank, ie, rank*#pips moved 

next step is obviously to migrate the code to mt4/mt5, to access more brokers. 
by the end of today - have a simple mt4 strategy working on a demo account

by cuba trip - live account at dukascopy, be making 10+ dollars/day with apps, 3rd app released, and strategies finalized in
mql4/jforex, and some smaller live accounts at other brokers. 

start up an email service on your blog, that allows you to get subscribers to your signals, to start building up a subscriber base
(add this to your app as well) 

whats another bollinger band-type indicator?
you still need to find something that makes a lot more trades than 300 on average over 5 years.. maybe bollinger bands with lower
std threshold and a stronger filter? 
other indices: zscore thresholds
add bid-ask to simulations. 

combining z-score with bollinger bands AND moving average? 

new strategy - z-score + bollingerband + mvg + volume - aim for 500+ trades, 1500+ pips profit, .995 profit curve
averaging strategy curves - 3-5 good strategies, should smooth out the profit curve quite a bit
add the bid/ask. 
first - re-test the bollinger band only with bid/ask
bid/ask epic fail - negative everywhere - now, try using the volume threshold and the spread threshold to see if you can get positive
values.

buying the ask, and selling the bid - but not including the spread in the simulation. does this make sense??
the spread is already implicitly included, because you buy at a higher price...its the same as if you entered at a lower price,
and subtracted the spread. so yes, it should make sense...
the reason you get better results when you do this? probably because of the fact that the market would eventually reach your goal,
but subtracting the spread just puts you at a disadvantage because you don't wait as long and you automatically lose money. 

different strategies - how to gauge their complimentariness? isolate small sec
a pip throwing party - candle reversal patterns, near bollinger bands (search for an ""occurence" near the bands
sell auto-trading strategies - that allow people to visualize trades 

macd seems to give the best results, but still not very smooth. 

how to make a smarter stop/take profit? 
what parameters can you optimize after entering a trade (Randomly)
obviously, the bollinger band is one, which works well (buy at a local low, sell at a local high), filter with volume. 
what if you just optimize stop/takeprofit on exit only? hasn't been tried
another thing to look at - is price more likely to hit a value that it has been at recently, than one it hasn't been at recently?
ie, if price is moving in a trend, is it more likely to reach previous values than new values? how to quantify this? 
the bollinger band strategy - seems to work better if you wait for a big move up/down, after a certain range of bollinger band motion

a simple 5 minute strategy? try just waiting for high/low points difference from mvg
alternatives to STD? combining the MACD with the pipthresh strategy? too few trades when you have too many conditions operating..
volatility index? the max-min of previous n datapoints (range)

at home: hull moving average (+bollinger bands - or another turning point indicator)
kaufman moving average


calculating the probablity of price reaching a certain point. 
first - find out if 
using a moving average on the upl probability? 
ie, if the upl probability reaches a certain low/ high, after 
see if the percentage of winning/losing trades is proportional to the stop/takeprofit

correlate the nwin/nloss with the tp/stop - should be 1. 
probability should be 99% if the stop is 100 and the tp is 1. 
	can you change the probabilities by adjusting the entry parameters? 

using the hull mvg to define local minima/maxima? 


this weekend - validate the new stop/tp in java/dukascopy, and start it running on sunday night. 

see what works best on the re-test - specific parameters, or the individual parameters. 

assuming the market is completely random - is there any way to consistently make profit off of it?
check your historical price idea...if price was more recently at one level, what is the probability it will go back to that level
vs a new level, and how do you even quantify this? 
ie, check the price's "memory"... or support/resistance is also similar. how to quantify previous highs and lows? 
one more thing to try before you move on - the MACD currentdiff

different thresholds you've tried - outside bollinger bands, and i-(i-1) > x, what else is there? 
what about a simple crossover strategy - except use a bollinger band as the take profit? 
so far, the best strategy has been to just use bollinger bands and bounce between them. ie, buy low, sell high. 
you should try to improve on this strategy to filter out the bad trades. 
it seems that the strategy performs better in a low-volume scenario - this is probably because more volume = more trending, so
the bands get broken more easily. what other indicator correlates with volume? 

another thing to try would be to restrict the trades during the typical bollinger band to a certain spread threshold - try that
and see what happens. 

the other strategy you had was actually quite decent, if you can just make some modifications to make it work better on the real
market you could be ok.

cci strategy - optimize over mvg period, cci threshold, and what else? try the +/- pipthresh strategy with a cci filter? 
cci seems to give overall 2 pips advantage vs random entry, 
buy low sell high - does this make sense in a completely random context? 
test the strategy on shuffled data as well. 

average 2 pips per trade due to selling jumps/buying dips, 
what does it mean that the shuffled data doesn't work as well as the non-shuffled data?
the sequence of 

combine cci with bollinger bands? they're kind of the same, but combining them might give better trades (test simple bbands first) 
using the aroon in conjunction with any of these other indicators? its complimentary to a bunch of indis 

strategy idea: combining cci, diffthresh, and stop/tp? or just cci and diffthresh? 

get the baseline case (bbands only) 
the test the effects of adding other indicators such as cci, spread, volume, aroon, etc. 
baseline - epic fail only 3 currencies profitable. (no volume, spread <2). 

some other things to try - 10 second bars, 

so far, the best you have come up with is using the pip thresh and bollinger band with volume threshold. 

	next steps - optimize this, and then test on various filters (aroon, cci, etc) 










 