quantitative measurement of blood brain barrier permeability in human using dynamic contrast enhanced MRI with 
fast T1 mapping. 
abstract: breakdown of the bbb occuring in many neurological diseases has been difficult to measure noninvasively
in humans. DCE MRI measures BBB permeability, but important technical challenges remain and normative data from 
healthy controls is missing. BBB here is measured in both healthy subjects and subjects with white matter pathology.
fast t1 mapping was used to measure the leakage of Gd-DTPA from plasma into brain. a quarter of the standard 
Gd-DTPA was used and found to give both sufficient contrast to noise and high T1 sensitivity. the patlak graphical
approach was used to calculate the permeability based on changes in 1/t1. permeability constants were compared with
csf fluid albumin index. the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval for white matter BBB permeability for normal
subjects was 3x10^-4 L/g min. MRI measures correlated strongly with levels of CSF albumin in the subjects who
underwent lumbar puncture. 
introduction: the neuronal environment is protected from systemic circulation by a series of interfaces that have
been termed the bbb. disruption of BBB is an important indicator of inflammatory response in neurological disease,
including stroke, MS, and infection. accurate, noninvasive quantification of bbb permeability would be a valuable
aid in the diagnosis of stroke, and inflammatory disorders, as well as in measuring the bbb response to therapy. 
bbb permeability has been measured in human subjects and animal models using neuroimaging techniques, including
dynamic perfusion CT, and dynamic contrast enhanced MRI (DCE MRI). the mri methods are based on the contrast agent
leakage effect on water proton signal in the extravascular space. technical challenges including nonlinear 
behavior of the contrast agent, lack of fast imaging techniques, and lack of agreement on approach for measuring
and modeling the effects of contrast agent leakage on MRI parameters. prior studies measure pixel intensity changes
in t1 or t2* weighted images after a short time period following contrast agent injection, and are sensitive only
to relatively high levels of contrast agent leakage. slower rates of leakage appear to be important in chronic 
diseases such as alzheimer's and binswanger's disease, and quantitative t1 measurements in animal models show slow
rates of BBB leakage. 
this study applied a method to assess BBB leakage in human subjects using quantitative T1 measurements, in two 
groups of subjects, avoiding the nonlinear effects of contrast agent on T2* signal. 
using fast T1 mapping (TAPIR - t1 mapping with partial inversion recovery), the duration of data acquisition at 
each time point was reduced, and sampling a large number of time points during the measurement allowed to reduce
noise in the pharmacokinetic curves. the patlak model of intercompartmental exchange was used with a graphical 
approach to calculate the rate of transfer of Gd-DTPA from the blood to the extravascular brain using the measured
T1 changes. 
materials and methods: twenty healthy controls, and two groups of patients (10MS, 45VCI). VCI patients had a lumbar
puncture for CSF collection, and blood was also collected for calculation of albumin index. the albumin ratio was
calcuated by dividing the CSF albumin level by that of the plasma. VCI patients were separated into groups according
to tests, 1) suspected microvascular disease with vascular inolvement, 2) large vessel multiple strokes or single
strokes, 3) mixed vascular and alzheimer's disease, 4) leukoaraioisis. 
selection of dose of contrast reagent: a modified compartmental modeling technique, which includes the nonlinear
mixing effect, 	was used to evaluate the effect of the initial dose on the time course of Gd-DTPA during data 
acquisition. doses above 0.025mmol/kg lead to elevated contrast in the gray matter and subcortical areas of wm, due
to the higher vascular density in those areas. they determined that a dose of 0.025 mmol/kg provided both adequate
washout from the blood and change in the intensity of the MRI signal over 25 min. also using phantoms with different
concentrations of GD-DTPA they found that 1/T1 in the vicinity of the reduced dose changed much more rapidly with 
changes in Gd-DTPA than at higher concentrations. 
MRI acquisition and sequence parameters: t1 quantification was performed with the fast T1 mapping sequence TAPIR, 
tr=15ms, 3 echoes at 2.8,5.1,and 7.4ms, alpha=25deg, TI=30ms, preparation delay=2s, and a sampling interval of 
3min,30s, with the first TAPIR T1 dataset acquired before Gd-DTPA injection and 7 datasets acquired following the
injection. 
T1 reconstruction: the tapir method is based on the look and locker method, the sequence consists of non-selective
magnetisation preparation module followed by a look-locker acquisition, which consists of the repetitive application
of slice selective alpha pulses. after a significant number of pulses the system approaches a steady state value 
given by: m(inf) = (1-e^(-TR/T1)) / (1-cos(alpha)*e^(-TR/T1)) where t1 is the longitudinal relaxation time, and TR
is the time between alpha pulses given to a single slice. the application of this preparation module creates 
longitudinal magnetization m1, which may be expressed as : m1 = 1-e^(-tn/T1)*(1+INV(1-e^(-r/T1)), where INV reflects
the efficiency of the inversion pulse. the longitudinal magnetization develops from the initial value m1 to the 
steady state value m(inf) according to an exponential relationship with apparent time constant T1* given by:
1/T1* = 1/T1 - ln(cos(alpha))/TR. 
thus, the longitudinal magnetization m sampled at times tn,p  = tn + TR*(p-1). where n is a slice index, 
p=1,2,...Np, and Np equals the number of points sampled during signal evolution, expressed as:
m = m(inf) - (m(inf) - m1)*e^((t-tn)/T1*). 
consequently, the signal intensity S is given by the following expression: S = M0*m*sin(alpha). 

permeability calculations: post processing including field inhomogeneity correction, noise reduction and motion 
correction was performed using nonparametric nonuniform intensity nonuniformity correction package
permeability maps were constructed using a method based on a tracer compartmental modeling technique and extended
to measurements of DCEMRI contrast changes by Larsson et al, and later, to quantitative measures of T1 by ewing et 
al, in studies on animal models. the method is based on measuring the leakage of contrast agent from the plasma
compartment into the tissue compartment through the BBB, which causes changes in the water proton relaxation 
times. the relationship between the pre and post contrast longitudinal relaxation rate difference at any point in 
time (delta(1/T1(t))), and the concentration of contrast agent at that point in time is assumed to be linear, 
(delta(1/T1(t)))*k = C(t), where k is the constant of proportionality. 
this estimate of concentration can be used with a formulation derived by Patlak and blasberg, to determine the rate
Ki at which a tracer passes from the vascular compartment into the tissue compartment:
Ctiss(t) = Ki*integral(0,t)[Cpa(tau)*dtau] + Cpa(t)*Vp. 
where Ctiss(t) is the concentration of the tracer in tissue, (mL tracer/gram of tissue) at time t, Cpa(t) is the 
concentration of the tracer in plasma, arterial input, Vp is the fraction of the total volume occupied by the blood
volume, and the units of Ki (blood to tissue transfer constant) are mL of contrast agent per gram of tissue per 
minute. the concentrations can be replaced by the T1 relaxation rates, scaled by the same proportionality constant
k. Cpa(t) was determined from the time course of a signal change in a pixel containing the sagittal sinus, assumed
to be proportional to the arterial concentration of the contrast agent concentration. this voxel was chosen to have
minimal noise and maximal dynamic range.

statistical methods: the BBB permeability were submitted to statistical analysis for inferences.

estimating normal BBB permeability: permeability values were greater in gm than wm, motivating them to study those
areas separately. the bbb permeability in the wm of control subjects is not zero, in agreement with other reports
and instead ranged from 0 to 6*10^-4 L/g min. this variability could be due to the systemic noise in the 
measurement as well as a small amount of leakage through the bbb. 

results: to gain insight into the distribution of Ki in wm pixels and determine a noise threshold for the 
permeability maps, the Ki distribution was plotted for each subject, no significant variation amoung the 
distributions was noted in the control subjects. an empirical histogram of the combined WM Ki values was plotted, 
and modeled using a Pareto distribution function. the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval of the model fit
was selected as the cutoff point for identifying measurement noise in the calculated permeability values in 
subsequent analysis. 











