rule #1: make time for what is important. everyone is busy, but there's a huge difference between being busy and being
productive. alphas are willing to sacrifice small things for important things, even if it means giving up a little fun. 
rule #2: consider the problem from all angles until you find a solution. sometimes you need a hammer, sometimes you need
a key. developing an understanding of how to address problems is an infinitely valuable life skill. 
rule #3: embrace ego as a mechanism to becoming more confident, but ego should never prevent you from listening to others
or being ready to learn. alphas are always open to the idea that they can learn more. 
rule #4: understand the importance of sex. alphas want sex to be meaningful to them in a number of ways, whether you 
quantify that by performance or connecting with your partner, great sex is something that alphas are great at. 
rule #5: say no to things you don't like. 
rule #6: don't ask for permission, beg for forgiveness. 
rule #7: don't criticize an idea unless you're willing to provide an alternative. 
rule #8: get your clothes tailored - a 200$ suit that fits looks better than a 500$ suit that doesn't. 
rule #9: show love - never ever hold back from giving a compliment, as long as its sincere. there's never a bad time to 
say something nice; get in the habit of doing this, people will love you for it.
rule #10: always be the first person to reach for the cheque, even if the other person invited you out. if they put up a 
strong fight, let them have it. alphas try to take care of others and never want to be beholden to anyone, but they don't 
force dominance on anyone, especially financially. 
rule #11: answer all insults with a smile. alphas understand that not everyone is going to like them, and some people will
be vocal about it. don't give them the satisfaction of giving a shit. 
rule #12: admit your mistakes with honesty and humor. accepting responsibility for your actions, especially when they're 
mistakes, is vitally important. alphas do this, and they always go the extra step to make things right. 
rule #13: take the lead - always suggest a day and a time, instead of leaving it in the air. alphas don't wait for others
to suggest things, they make them happen. 
rule #14: understand that scared money doesn't make money. fortune favors the bold. alphas take risks and savor both the
sweetness of victories and lessons learned in defeat. 
rule #15: learn how to cook. if you're approaching 30 and can't make a few meals, take the next month and learn. time to
grow the fuck up. alphas know how to feed themselves, its a basic human function. 

alpha traits:
trait #1: helpful, but not condescending. the drive to become successfull isn't just the means to a narcissistic and
individualistic end. taking care of your primary goals is only part of creating the life you want, the other half is
shaping and influencing the world you live in. taking the good and the bad of what you've learned, and paying that 
knowledge forward making the world a better place. the alpha gives advice and encourages others, but he does not look to
do things for them, he understands that they need to do things on their own, and while sometimes need assistance with 
advice or guidance, the alpha realizes that if he were to overstep his bounds and solve their problems for them, they 
wouldn't learn. the alpha doesn't micromanage the people in his life, thats not being helpful thats being condescending.
believing that you are the only one who can fix things is the height of egotism, and one of the most damaging opinions
that you can have. its an insult wrapped in a facade of kindness. lead and motivate, but allow others to blaze their own
path. the purpose of this book is not to solve all your problems, but give you the tools to solve them yourself. 
alpha trait #2: confident but not cocky: the redefined alpha is characterized by a confidence stemming from knowledge of 
his own strengths and weaknesses, as well as what he can immediately achieve and what he needs to work on. a true alphas
assessment of self isn't a comparative analysis, but an internal drive that fuels motivation and success. therefore, the
alpha elevates others in order to display his confidence in his ability to share thoughts, ideas, and plans to improve 
the world around him. confidence enables taking action in every form possible, including pursuing the right woman, and 
solving problems with your ideas. when you accept who you are and appreciate who you can be, your confidence immediately 
becomes much more genuine, insecurities less potent, you create more control and you experience more success.
trait #3: vain - but not conceited: good looking people go further in life, this is a fact. a little bit of vanity is just
a manifestation of wanting to take care of yourself. when you look good, you feel good, and when you feel good, you exude
an energy that improves your world and the energy of the people in the world around you. there's nothing wrong with 
wanting to be good looking, but problems begin when you start to see yourself as better than others due to these factors. 
improving your body is a means to achieving success, and physical success is a means to overall success in life. the alpha
realizes that looks or brains or money or muscle may give him an edge, they don't define him, rather, his value is 
determined by his actions and what he does for others in the world. 
alpha trait #4: prideful, but not arrogant - the difference between pride and arrogance is a fine line, but one that 
separates those who inspire from those who are considered assholes. everything depends on how you react to your success...
do you share it as a means to provoke more creative and progressive thought, or do you expect things to happen because
of what you've already accomplished? people who rest on their laurels are arrogant. pride is acknowledging your success, 
but always retaining the mindset of an intern - you have to prove yourself over and over again no matter what you've 
done previously. pride is essential - you can't improve yourself or the world if you don't acknowledge your own success,
this is change psychology that depends on reinforcement. you need to believe you are good, and to do that you need to
reference what you've done right, but pointing to prior success shouldn't remove the drive to perform again. 
alpha trait #5: humble, but not self loathing - humility is important for acknowledging the effort it takes to improve
and accepting you are not the best and more effort is needed. humility keeps you sane, grounded, and hungry. thinking 
that because you're not einstein you are stupid goes to far, however, into self loathing. when you are self loathing, 
you venture into an area where you are incapable of taking credit for any success. self loathers are paralyzed by the 
belief that no matter what they do, they are not good enough. the alpha is humble and never, ever loses faith in himself. 
alpha trait #6  - tolerant, but not weak: `part of life is dealing with crap, this is an inevitable fact nobody can avoid.
you have to be tolerant of people's mistakes, shortcomings, and personal opinions. at the same time, there are lines to
life, and if people cross them either repeatedly or egregiously, you have to be willing to put your foot down. this 
doesn't always mean being aggressive and confrontational, in many situations this can be addressed by offering helpful 
solutions. in other situations, you need to be aggressive by confronting the situation, lay the cards on the table, and
leave your adversary with no choice but to see the situation that has been created and the steps that need to be taken. 
the alpha should always be thinking about solutions, not problems, and in the most extreme cases, be willing to walk 
away. surrounding toxicity can literally make you a less evolved person. determine your morals and values, and remind 
yourself that being tolerant is not an excuse to sacrifice the core of who you are. the alpha inspires the world around
himself to become better, and that can't happen if you're too fearful to voice your opinion, and settle for a life where
you're always the bitch. 
trait #7 : dedicated, but not obsessed: the workaholic is a machine designed for one purpose: getting things done.
there's a fine line between dedication and obsession however, and paying attention to what is truly important in life. 
the alpha outlines goals so there is a quantitative way to determine success, keeping him humble and hungry but also 
preventing him from spiraling out of control. the obsessed also often possess the self-loathing trait, and sacrifice 
all other aspects of their life for their one obsession. 'obsession is the wellspring of genius - and madness'. madness is
a much more common consequence of obsession - leaving you bitter, empty, and alone.  alphas are dedicated to their health,
families, and friends, but most of all to themselves. they are dedicated to improvement, but are not tied to a narcissitic
view that impairs their ability to create a rich, multifaceted existence. 

two factors work against you when you try to change you body:
#1: misinformation
#2: lack of focus 

mistruths:
#1: breakfast is the most important meal of the day. actually, eating early in the morning shuts down hormones that control
fat loss. large eating windows are associated with more fat storage and a higher likelihood of health problems such as
diabetes and liver disease. 
#2: eating frequently stokes your metabolism: not true, no difference between 3 and 6 meals in terms of fat loss
#3: the body can only absorb 30g of protein at a time. 
#4: eating before bed makes you fat. fat burning is actually higher if you eat later in the day. 
#5: eat your carbs earlier during the day. actually, having carbs at night can cause you to relase more growth hormone
as you sleep. nighttime carb feasters lost more fat and had less hunger. you can also train in the morning if you carb
load at night, filling your muscles with glycogen. 
#6: cardio is the best fat-loss strategy. 
#7: not all supplements are bullshit - go for GMP certified products. 
the alpha male stack:
1) protein powder: take a blended protein powder that digests at different speeds
2) greens drink: a superfood that will boost your health, improve your immune system, protect your digestive system, and
help fight a variety of diseases. 
3) fish oil
4) vitamin d (D3)	

#8: you can't target specific areas in your muscles:
#9 you need to eat before you train - you can actually train up to 50 hours after eating (protein still being digested). 
take BCAA before training, and get rest and water. 
#10: crunches give you abs - 
trailer 'bleed for this' 	

testosterone boosting: 
1) lift heavy weights
2) do intervals
3) practice sprints and work your lower body
4) supplement with vitamin D (get at least 300 IU/day) 
5) don't smoke 
6) supplement with zinc
7) sleep more than 6 hours/night 
8) eat more protein
9) do squats and deadlifts
10) use shorter rest periods in the gym 
11) take fish oil
12) don't overtrain (just follow your program) 
13) include fat from animals and dairy
14) eat eggs 

how to increase GH: 
1) sleep more
2) fast during the morning
3) improve sleep quality
4) lift heavier weights
5) supplement with BCAAs
6) eat big before bed
7) perform sprints (10-30sec) are best
8) do high intensity metabolic resistance training (30-40 minutes max)
9) don't eat fat before a workout 
10) don't eat too many calories before exercise


leptin boosting tips:
1) fast at least 16 hrs a day
2) include strategic cheat meals (max 1 per day) 
3) perform resistance training
4) perform long distance cardiovascular training
5) avoid anabolic steriod - illegal + decrease leptin 
6) eat a high protein diet
7) don't eat too much fructose 
8) don't drop your calories too low on a diet (at most drop 500-600 calories/week). 

boosting sex drive:
1) lose the gut - if you don't feel attractive, you will have less sex. also, more fat = less testosterone production.
also, more fat = more estrogen. 
2) lift heavy weights - lifting weights increases GH and testosterone in a big way. it isn't actually aging that reduces
your sex drive, but inactivity associated with aging. 
3) eat more fat. fat plays an important role in regulating all your sex hormones. salmon and other fatty fish, which also
promotes good circulation and blood flow. avoid trans fats, which are in processed foods like cookies and chips. 
4) eat less soy: actually, don't eat any soy at all. poor sperm quality and ED is associated to more soy in the diet. 
5) be a strategic drinker (drink less beer). regular alcohol consumption is linked to a decrease in test levels 
and sex drive
6) set you alarm an hour earlier, and have sex in the morning when testosterone is at its peak. 
7) eat less sugar, or more sugar at the right time. taking in too much sugar on a regular basis makes you insulin resistant
which is to be avoided. try to avoid even one glass of juice per day, which can really mess with your blood sugar levels
8) don't watch porn - it can cause neurochemical changes that impair your ability to become aroused. 
9) check your perscription meds: don't use SSRIs, they impair your ability to orgasm
10) get more sleep - sleep at least 6 hours, or more. 
tips to sleep better: a) make your room colder b) eat carbs at night c) eat protein before bed d) have a cheat day to eat
more carbs and up your leptin e) sleep in a dark room (completely dark) f) avoid caffeine before bed (and after 4pm)
11) take more vacations - men who take vacations have lower cortisol levels and are 30% less likely to die from heart 
disease. 

carbs - simple and complex - the glycemic index (how quickly is the carb broken down, and how high do they boost blood 
sugar levels)

diet rules: LBM*14 = daily calories
subtract 300 on training days, 500 on non-training days
LBM*0.8 = grams of protein
30 grams of carbs (prime week 1)
4 calories per gram of carb or protein








































