simultaneous in-vivo spectral editing and water suppression
abstract: water suppression is typically performed in vivo by exciting the longitudinal magnetization in combination with dephasing
or by using frequency selective coherence generation. MEGA, a frequency selective refocusing techhnique, can be placed into any
pulse sequence element designed to generate a Hahn spin echo or stimulated echo, to dephase transverse water coherences with 
minimal spectral distortions. water suppression performance was verified in-vivo using stimulated echo acquisition mode localization
which provides water suppression comparable with that achieved with four selective pulses in 3, 1-DRYSTEAM. the advantage of the
proposed method was exploited for editing j-coupled resonances. using a double banded pulse that selectively inverts a j-coupling
partner and simultaneously suppresses water, efficient metabolite editing was achieved in the point-resolved spectroscopy (PRESS)
and STEAM sequences in which MEGA was incorporated. to illustrate the efficiency of the method, the detection of GABA was
demonstrated, with minimal contributions from macromolecules and overlying singlet peaks at 4T. the estimated occipital GABA 
concentration was consistent with previous reports, suggesting that editing for GABA is efficient when based on MEGA at high
field strengths. 

introduction: 1h spectroscopy can provide detailed information about human tissues, because of its high sensitivity. to achieve
consistently accurate quantification, high quality water suppression is necessary. various frequency selective techniques have
been used to achieve water suppression in vivo. chemical shift selective suppression, and related techniques, use frequency
selective prepulses followed by dephasing gradients to minimize the water z-magnetization prior to excitation. since these 
techniques are applied during a small time prior to excitation, the water signal may recover due to T1 relaxation or spin exchange,
and overall pulse sequence time is somewhat increased. several variations of chess have been introduced to further improve water
suppression, such as DRYSTEAM (DRY stimulated echo acquisition mode). drysteam uses several frequency selective pulses combined
with gradient dephasing, which are applied prior to the first slice selective pulse and during TM, to optimize the suppression 
of a certain resonance. modifications of chess, in which flip angles, pluse shapes, interpulse delays, and/or dephasing gradients
are also varied can improve the suppression of a given resonance for a selected range of T1 and B1 values. 
binomial pulses, and variants thereof, can also be used to achieve excellent water suppression as well as for spectral editing.
for instance, spectral editing of lactate has been performed by subtracting the spectra acquired with a binomial refocusing pulse
from the spectra acquired with a hard 180deg pulse, which does not retain the full water-suppression capability. 
previously, the new solvent suppression sequence MEGA was described, which can be placed within any pulse sequence containing an 
element whose function is to refocus transverse magnetization. MEGA employs gradients surrounding the frequency selective refocusing
pulse to dephase transverse magnetization. a detailed analysis and comparison of MEGA to other methods has been presented. pulse
sequence element MEGA has the following advantages 1) it is relatively insensitive to pulse flip angle errors of the frequency 
selective pulse, because of RF field inhomogeneities or inaccurate pulse calibration. 2) MEGA does not introduce phase distortion to
spectral peaks off-resonance. 3) MEGA is easy to implement because the frequency selective pulses are identical. 4) inter-conversion
of transverse and longitudinal magnetization does not occur when MEGA is used. here, the performance of MEGA for water suppression
is demonstrated in the simple hahn spin echo and stimulated echo acquisition modes. 
since MEGA water suppression relies on applying 180deg pulses about a refocusing pulse, it lends itself to be used for the editing
of j-coupled spin systems. 





























