spatial localization in nmr spectroscopy in-vivo
summary: spatial localization techniques are necessary for in-vivo nmr of heterogenous organisms. localization by surface coil NMR 
detection alone is generally inadequate for deep lying organs due to contaminating signals from intervening surface tissues. however,
localization to preselected planar volumes can be achieved using a single selective excitation pulse in the presence of a pulsed 
magnetic field gradient, yielding depth resolved surface coil spectra (dress). within selected planes, dress are spatially restricted
by the surface coil sensitivity profiles to disk shaped volumes whose radii increase with depth, notwithstanding variations in the
NMR signal intensity distribution. nevertheless, dress is a simple and versatile localization procedure that is readily adaptable to
spectral relaxation time measurements by adding inversion or spin-echo refocusing pulses, or to in vivo solvent supressed spectroscopy
of proton metabolites using a combination of chemical selective RF pulses. the spatial information gathering efficiency of this 
technique can be improved to provide simultaneous acquisition of spectra from multiple volumes by interleaving excitation of adjacent
planes within the normal relaxation recovery period. the spatial selectivity can be improved by adding additional selective excitation
spin-echo refocusing pulses to achieve full, three dimensional point resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) in a single excitation sequence. 
alternatively, for samples with short spin-spin relaxation times, DRESS can be combined with other localization schemes, such as 
image selected in vivo spectroscopy (ISIS) to provide complete gradient controlled 3d localization with a reduced number of sequence
cycles. 

localization strategies: the great promise of in vivo nmr spectroscopy lies in its ability to provide chemical information about 
physiological function, its perturbation by disease, and its restoration to health via therapy. although proton nmr spectra from living
cells was reported as early as 1950, and natural abundance phosphorous spectra were acquired from blood cells and excised rat muscle
nearly two decades later, human NMR spectroscopy was not feasible till the advent of larger bore superconducting magnet systems capable
of accomodating the human limbs, head, and full body. small, circular flat NMR coils positioned on the surface of the body were crucial
for providing the first access to spatially localized P NMR spectra. surface coil localization has a major problem however, which is
significant contamination of NMR signals from important deeper lying organs of significant interest such as the brain, liver, and
heart. figure 1 shows 1h surface coil nmr images acquired from a single turn 6.5 diameter surface coil located on the head above the
temple. the proportion of signal derived from the brain can be increased by increasing the NMR flip angle beyond pi/2, but substantial
surface tissue contributions are inevitable. to address this, and improve the control and definition of spatially localized regions 
for spectroscopic analysis, many spatial localization schemes have been proposed, which employ either RF, static, or time dependent
magnetic field gradients to restrict data acquisition to single or multiple selected volumes, these techniques can be used with surface
or volume coils, depending on the depth of the desired volume. 