retinotopic mapping and orientation tuning stimuli: 
you want to compare the tuning curves of alpha/beta and gamma to do this, you should have at least 30 orientations
and 30 different retinotopic locations. 
the rotating wedge can be broken up into different areas quite easily, but it would be nice to have the discrete locations
as well. 30s rotations, 40 trials is just 20 minutes. do that first while they are fresh. 
30 orientations, and 30s of rotation, and the 20 different areas
50*2.25 = ~35 trials in one hr, for 60 different stim types. drop the plaid.

compare the tuning curves: alpha/beta and gamma orientation and retinotopic selectivity functional specificity blah blah
see if the different frequency bands share tuning properties. see which bands are most informative about retinotopic 
locations. 

spatial linearity score: gamma quite good, alpha/beta weak, although the overall strength of the alpha/bet correlated well
with gamma (distance?) 
compare gamma band due to monocular or binocular? 

retinotopic selectivity : alpha vs gamma and all freqs correlation
orientation selectivity : alpha vs gamma and all freqs correlation (show mid gamma also) 

Retinotopic and orientation selectivity of EEG alpha/beta and gamma power
Russell Butler, Pierre-Michel Bernier, Kevin Whittingstall

Abstract: low (alpha/beta, 8-25Hz) and high (gamma, 40+Hz) rhythms of the EEG signal are thought to play different
functional roles in visual processing, but their relative sensitivity to basic features such as retinotopic 
location and stimulus orientation remains unknown. We non-invasively measured alpha/beta and gamma retinotopic 
and orientation tuning, finding that gamma is better tuned to both orientation and retinotopy. Furthermore, the gamma scalp 
topography closely followed known retinotopic organization, while alpha/beta was less spatially specific. However, alpha/beta
power did show some tuning to retinotopic location in terms of raw power. These results support the 
hypothesis that gamma is due to local processing while alpha/beta involve interactions with higher visual areas. 
The orientation selectivity of the gamma band is likely due to a shared preferred orientation across sites in the visual cortex, 
which is known to create global tuning. The lack of orientation tuning in alpha/beta is likely due to the fact that changes 
in alpha/beta are manifested as suppression of feedback oscillations between visual areas. 
Taken together, these results help confirm the feed-forward hypothesis of visual processing, suggesting that feedback effects 
as measured through alpha/beta rhythm are not as functionally relevant to visual processing. 
