stimulated echo imaging
a new form of NMR imaging is described using stimulated echoes. the technique, dubbed STEAM (stimulated echo acquisitin mode) 
is a versatile tool for multipurpose NMR imaging. stimulated echoes can be excited by a sequence of at least 3 RF pulses, which 
in the basic experiment have flip angles of 90deg or less. thus, no selective or non-selective 180deg pulses are needed, which 
eliminates a variety of problems associated with such pulses in conventional spin-echo NMR imaging. further advantages of STEAM
imaging are concerned with the functional flexibility of an imaging sequence comprising 3 pulses and 3 intervals, and possibility
of storing information prepared during the first interval into the form of longitudinal magnetization during the second interval.
in general, the applied RF power is considerably reduced, as compared to spin-echo based imaging sequences. the general principles
of the technique are outlined, and first application of multislice imaging to directly neighbouring slices are demonstrated. 
subsequent papers will be concerned with modification of the basic STEAM sequence, which, for example, allow multiple chemical
shift selective imaging (CHESS) complete imaging of the spin-lattice relaxation behavior, diffusion imaging, and single shot
real time imaging. 

introduction: except for the very first attempts involving free induction decays, nmr imaging has been based on the acquisition
of spin echo SE nmr signals excited by rf pulse sequences of the form 90deg - 180deg - SE. these sequences provide the maximum
signal available for reconstruction of an image, and yield excellent anatomical and diagnostic details. nevertheless, NMR 
experiments employing 180deg pulses are limited in particular respects, particularly when applied to human subjects in-vivo. 
i) the use of selective 180deg pulses in combination with a slice selective gradient raises problems for the proper refocusing of
the excited spin moments, a solution requires increasing the bandwidth of the 180deg pulse but distorts magnetization immediately
on both sides of the wanted slice. moreover, in most cases a second compensation experiment is needed to eliminate magnetization
components contributing from outside the slice. the first effect degrades the use of multislice imaging, while the second effect
prolongs the measuring time by a factor of two. 
ii) SE NMR sequences are entirely based on transverse magnetization and can be excited only once and used in a short time with 
respect to T2 under the assumption of multiecho formation by means of a sequence of 180deg pulses. for a more quantitative imaging
it is a disadvantage that the attenuation of the spin echoes results from a variety of processes which together destroy the phase
coherence of the spin moments. in vivo the simultaneous presence of t2 relaxation, diffusion, and flow make a clear separation or
discrimination of contributions almost impossible. further, since no longitudinal magnetization is involved, spin echoes do not 
contain any T1 information. in SE NMR imaging, therefore, T1 contrast has to be acquired in a rather time consuming way by 
performing multiple experiments with different repetition times or by means of recording multiple inversion-recovery images with
different relaxation delays. 
iii) to provide a maximum of information within the measuring time of a single NMR image, SE techniques have been extended to 
multiecho and/or multislice versions using a large number of 180deg pulses. these sequences however become a problem in high 
field NMR imaging at field strengths of 1.5T or higher, because of the considerable increase of rf power distribution in the body. 

here, a new form of MR imaging using stimulated echoes and free from the above drawbacks is proposed, by avoiding the use of a 180
deg pulse. although the stimulated echo intensity is only half that of a spin echo taken at the same readout time, the advantages
of STEAM and its modified versions will compensate for for this partial loss in SNR. STEAM imaging experiments in the future will
be described which often are without SE-NMR alternatives including simultaneous chemical shift selective (CHESS) imaging of 
multiline spectra, simultaneous imaging of complete spin-lattice relaxation curves, imaging of self-diffusion coefficients, and
single shot real time imgaing with variable spatial resolution. 

stimulated echoes: the basic RF pulse sequence that gives rise to a stimulated echo signal signal at t3=t1 is:
90deg-t1-90deg-t2-90deg-t3(STE), where the pulses may have arbitrary phase relations. it was first proposed by hahn in 1950 and
later used for NMR diffusion measurements. more recently, STE signals have been observed with certain 2d and quantum NMR 
experiments. in general, 5 echoes may be observed by the application of 3 pulses. assuming t2>t1, the primary echo signals are the
SE signal at t2=t1, created by the first two pulses, and the STE signal at t3=t1, due to the action of all 3 pulses. secondary
echoes occur as spin echoes excited by the third pulse which mirrors the primary SE to yield a second SE at t3 = t2-t1, the FID
following the second pulse to yield a third SE at t3=t2, and the FID following the first pulse to yield a fourth SE at t3=t1+t2. 

























