structure paper version 2.0, for submission to neuroimage by January 10th 2018
step 1: check neuroimage requirements and what they look for, recent papers, etc
build your article around the neuroimage format, instead of just cramming it to fit. 

starts with a theoretical model or methods figure

show the initial result first - mean gamma vs mean distance, and then go into electrode specific

figure 1: show methods and peak frequency, make plots more fancy
cite how gamma is supposedly due to inhibition, more gamma = more inhibition, subject-specific differences
different metrics - get a nice surface visualizer

visualizing curvature metrics?

Figure 2:
use grid lines on any grid plots you might show - throw in some grids




result - normal vectors in pial and white matter surfaces

the wisdom of psychopaths
need clean dataset ready to run ICA -> flips and bad elecs, then run ICA on continuous data and plot ersp/topo

do the same for small group although they should be ok already (outside only?) 
also try the frequency space ICA - might give better results. 
flip the vector of bad electrodes, 1:32 = 33:64, etc. 

voxel-wise comparisons EEG-FMRI? see how peak frequency varies with BOLD in each voxel? 
see how stimulus response profile matches with BOLD in each voxel? 


goal for today 17-12-30
finish the distance paper, including ROI image with electrodes and COM
distance figure pretty much done - get some feedback, and put finishing touches 

then 3 days for curvature paper (including freesurfer and new stats)
the figure 1, then figure 4 (by 18-01-15)
study of neonates power differences

distance not cortical morphology determines eeg gamma
supplementary: same analysis but with %change

no significant corr for cancellation, but significant sorting effect? 
show posterior electrodes in red, others in black
voxel-wise analysis of I0? I0 VBM
get I0 in all subjects, warp, and correlate across voxels. finish the figure first

get all the figures you need, then plan the figure layout
plan the paper with kevin after sending him a gigantic sheet full of figures. 

need to get all the raw data - gina still showing some artifacts, and also good for supplementary figures.
raw data with single trials for all stimulus types, both ERSP, and subtracted frequencies. 
get the raw data and just save it to the E:, all freqs, all times, then later you can play with different types of baseline subtraction. 
filter the raw data from 1-100 and just save each as its own set. 






