suppression of gamma oscillations in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex following long interval cortical inhibition:
a TMS-EEG study
abstract: gamma oscillations represent important electrophysiological measures, which are generated through the execution of
higher order cognitive tasks (eg working memory) in the prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). By contrast, cortical inhibition CI referes to
a neurophysiological process in which GABAergic inhibitory interneurons selectively suppress the activation of other neurons in the
cortex. recently, abnormalities in both CI and gamma oscillations have been associated with various neuropsychiatric disorders
including schizophrenia. animal research suggests that suppression of gamma oscillations is in part mediated through GABAergic
inhibitory neurotransmission. however, no such evidence is present in humans, partly due to technological limitations. recently,
novel methods of recording CI from the DLPFC through TMS combined with EEG have been reported. the aim of this study was to examine
the effects of gabergic inhibitory neurotransmission on the gamma rhythm by combining TMS with EEG. long interval cortical 
inhibition, a paired TMS paradigm, was used to index GABAb receptor mediated neurotransmission in the motor cortex and DLPFC of
healthy individuals. gamma oscillations were significantly inhibited by LICI in the DLPFC but not in the motor cortex. such 
specificity suggests that modulation of gamma oscillations may represent an important neurophysiological process that may, in 
part, be responsible for optimal DLPFC functioning in healthy human subjects. 

introduction: cortical inhibition refers to a neurophysiological process whereby gabaergic interneurons inhibit or attenuate the
activity of other neurons in the cortex. previous studies have shown that ci can be studied by the application of paired-pulse 	
tms over the motor cortex and measured through the attenuation of the motor-evoked potential in the peripheral muscles as recorded
through electromyography. several studies have examined ci in the motor cortex through a paired-pulse tms paradigm known as long
interval cortical inhibition, in which applicaion of a conditioning stimulus (cs) within a 50-200ms interval before a test 
stimulus suppresses the amplitude of the mep following the ts by about 50% compared to a single ts alone. several lines of study
suggest that lici reflects gabab receptor mediated inhibitory neurotransmission. for example, the fact that lici inhibits another
inhibitory paradigm (sici) which relates to gabaa receptor mediated inhibitory neurotransmission, is consistent with the suggestion
that presynaptic gabab may inhibit the release of gaba with a concomitant decrease in gabaa receptor mediated inhibition. also,
lici is evoked with a high intensity cs that produces longer intervals of ci, consistent with the finding that gabab receptor
mediated responses have higher activation thresholds and their inhibitory influence is longer lasting. furthermore, the 
administration of gabab receptor against baclofen was found to potentiate lici. 
during the past few decades, numerous EEG studies have examined the functional roles of cortical oscillations in various brain 
regions. for example, it has been demonstrated that theta, alpha, and beta are more closely related to movement phenomena. 
short lasting beta oscillations have been observed following voluntary hand movement, whereas low frequency oscillations such as
delta have been linked to sleep. by contrast, cortical oscillations in the gamma frequency band recorded from the dorsolateral
prefrontal cortex and hippocampus represent important physiological processes, associated with higher order cognitive tasks 
including working memory. for example, increases in working memory loads have been associated with increases in the power of 
induced gamma oscillations in the dlpfc of healthy subjects, and gamma oscillation abnormalities have been associated with working
memory deficits in patients with schizophrenia. 
to date, several in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated that the activation of gabab receptors supress the stimulus 
induced or spontaneous gamma oscillations. animal studies have shown that administration of gabab receptor agonists such as 
baclofen eliminates gamma oscillations in rat hippocampal slices, whereas the blockade of gabab receptors has been shown to 
enhance the gamma oscillation in the hippocampus of behaving rats. consistent with these studies, stimulus induced attenuation of
gamma oscillations was enhanced following the injection of tiagabine. 
recently, novel techniques of combining EEG with TMS to measure lici in the dlpfc and motor cortex have been developed. using these
methods they endeavour to compare the modulatory influence of lici on cortical oscillations across the 5 frequency bands delta, 
theta, alpha, beta, and gamma in the motor cortex and dlpfc of healthy subjects. 

methods: 
participants: 14 healthy, right handed volunteers (mean age 35). 
experimental design: TMS was administered over left DLPFC and motor cortex of all subjects. inhibition was measured through lici
and indexed through emg and eeg. lici involves pairing of a suprathreshold cs followed by a suprathreshold ts at long isi (100ms).
lici is recorded optimally at 100ms, and as such this interval was used in the experiment. both the cs and ts were suprathreshold
and adjust to produce a mean peak to peak mep amplitude of 1mv. 100 tms stimuli were delivered per condition (paired and ts only),
repeated every 5s. to control for the effect of tms click induced auditory activation on cortical evoked potentials, single and
paired pulse sham stimulation was administered in a sub-set of 10 subjects. all conditions were randomly counterbalanced between
subjects to avoid order effects. 
data recording: a 7cm figure 8 coil and two magstim 200 stimulators, connected by a bistim module. lici in the motor cortex was
examined through simultaneous emg and eeg recording, and in the dlpfc through eeg only. 
localizatoin of dlpfc: neuronavigation using t1 weighted mri. stimulation was directed at the juncture of the middle and anterior
1/3 of the middle frontal gyrus corresponding with posterior regions of brodmann's area 9, which overlaps with the superior section
of ba46. 
emg recording: 
eeg recording: 64 channel cap, ocular, 20khz sampling rate. 
data analysis: in the motor cortex, lici was monitored through both EEG and EMG, in the dlpfc, through eeg only. 
EMG measure of inhibition: for each subject, the EMG measure of lici100 was indexed by comparing the area under the rectified curve
of average mep following the single pulse with the area under the curve following the paired pulses, and inhibition was obtained
as the following: 1-area under cs / area under us * 100
EEG measure of inhibition: eeg data was segmented -1000:1000ms relative to stimulus. epochs were baseline corrected, and the 
baseline corrected post TS intervals which were not contaminated by TMS artifact were extracted and digitally filtered using 1-100hz
bandpass filtered, and noisy trials removed. to quantify the EEG measure of lici100, frequency windows were defined and power was
computed, the inhibition index was calculated in the same manner as with the motor evoked potential. electrode af3 was used to 
represent activity in the dlpfc, and c3 for the hand area. 

results: 
motor cortex: consistent with a previous study, there was a significant suppression in the mean area under the rectified emg 
curves. similarly in c3 there was a decrease in the area under the curve for delta, theta, and alpha, but not for beta or gamma.
dlpfc: unlike the motor cortex, all rhythms were suppressed, and 11/14 subjects showed inhibition in the dlpfc. 
comparison of motor cortex to dlpfc: there was a greater suppression in the dlpfc than in the motor cortex. 

discussion: 


















