synaptic mechanisms of synchronized gamma oscillations in inhibitory neural networks 
gamma frequency oscillations are thought to provide temporal structure for information processing in the brain. they contribute
to cognitive functions, such as memory formation and sensory processing, and are disturbed in some psychiatric disorders. fast
spiking, parvalbumin expressing, soma inhibitory interneurons have a key role in the generation of these oscillations. experimental
analysis in the hippocampus and neocortex reveals that synapses amoung these interneurons are highly specialized. computational
analysis reveals that synaptic specialization turns interneuron networks into robust gamma frequency oscillators. 

introduction: oscillatory activity is a hallmark of neuronal activity in brain regions such as the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, 
and neocortex. the frequency of these oscillations covers three orders of magnitude, from the delta (0.5Hz) to alpha to high gamma
range (200Hz). within this spectrum, gamma oscillations have received particular attention because their link to cognition is
particularly evident. gamma oscillations have been proposed to represent reference signals for temporal encoding, sensory binding
of features into a coherent percept, and storage and recall of information. conversely, disruption of gamma rhythms could underlie
some psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia. 
to understand how oscillations contribute to higher brain function, it is necessary to first consider the underlying mechanisms. 
a key requirement for the generation of network oscillations is regular and synchronized neuronal activity. if a neuron fires 
action potentials in a regular manner, rhythmic fluctuation of output synapses generates a periodic fluctuation in the intracellular
potential of all postsynaptic cells. if several neurons fire regularly and synchronously, this fluctuating output signal is 
amplified, defining temporal windows of increased and reduced excitability in a target population of output cells. at the same time
the rhythmic synaptic activation pattern results in a fluctuating field potential signal, which can be easily measured using 
extracellular electrodes. the divergence of synaptic outputs leads to a high level of spatial coherence of network oscillations,
such highly coherent oscillations might be ideal reference signals for temporal encoding and sensory binding in large neuronal 
ensembles. 
although gamma oscillations occur in all cortical areas, they are particularly well studied in the hippocampus. first, the power
of extracellularly recorded oscillations is higher in the hippocampus than other regions, owing to the simple laminated 
architecture of the hippocampal circuit. second, gamma oscillations in the hippocampus are evoked under specific behavioral 
conditions such as exploration when they typically coexist with theta oscillations. third, as the hippocampus is involved in 
spatial navigation episodic memory, the relevance of network oscillations for coding, storing, and retrieving memories can be
investigated. although hippocampal gamma oscillations have been studied for decades, underlying neuronal and synaptic mechanisms
have only recently come to light. this article aims to summarize the synaptic mechanisms of gamma oscillations in the cortex, with
primary focus on hippocampus. the dependence of gamma oscillations on synaptic inhibition, and the role of fast spiking, 
parvalbumin expressing GABA containing interneurons. how mutual inhibition leads to oscillations in inhibitory network models is
explained. the properties of GABA synapses between interneurons are revealed, and it is shown how these properties increase the
robustness of oscillations when incorporated into interneuron network models. finally, interneuron excitation by gap junctions and
fast glutamatergic synapses is investigated and how extended network models incorporate these effects. 
parvalbumin: a calcium binding protein. in the hippocampus, parvalbumin is selectively expressed in fast spiking basket cells and
axo-axonic cells. its expression is a reliable marker for interneuron identification. 

reliance of gamma activity on inhibition: intuitively, phasic excitement seems to be an ideal mechanism to generate synchronized
oscillatory activity. however, this might not be the case for gamma oscillations. the contribution of excitation and inhibition
to the generation of gamma oscillations can be systematically investigated in acute hippocampal slices in vitro. 
gamma oscillations can be evoked in vitro by agonists of various metabotropic or ionotropic receptors: metabotropic glutamate
receptors, muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, and kainaite receptors. they can also be induced through the application of a 
potassium rich solution. however, gamma oscillations evoked under these conditions differ in their reliance on excitation and
inhibition, mglur induced gamma oscillations in ca1 are completely blocked by gabaa receptor antagonists, but are maintained
in the presence of ampa antagonists. 
therefore, gaba mediated inhibition is necessary and sufficient for the generation of gamma oscillations induced by mglur or
kainate receptor receptor activation, whereas it is necessary but not sufficient to generate gamma oscillations after carbachol
application. carbachol induced activation requires a combination of phasic inhibition and excitation. regardless of the means of
induction, the power and frequency of gamma oscillations can be modulated by substances that modify gabaa receptor gating, such as
benzodiazepenes and barbituates, underscoring the importance of gaba synapses in gamma oscillation generation. 

the differences in the reliance of gamma oscillations on fast inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission, depending on the
method of induction, can be understood in terms of synaptic connectivity and the localization of receptors that activate the
network. there is an extensive system of glutamatergic recurrent collateral synapses in ca3 but not in ca1, it is therefore
possible that phasic excitation is more important in ca3 than ca1. furthermore, mglurs and kainate receptors are expected to 
preferentially activate interneurons, whereas machrs are believed to be mainly located on principal neurons. as a result, mglur 
and kainate receptor models do not require phasic excitation, because interneurons are activated directly, whereas machr models
depend on phasic excitation, as interneurons are activated indirectly by pyramidal neurons. application of a potassium rich 
solution is likely to depolarize both principal neurons and interneurons, which is why potassium induced oscillations have 
intermediate properties. 
finally, gap junctions seem to be important for some in-vitro forms of gamma oscillation. carbachol induced oscillations in the ca3
region are inhibited by the non-specific gap junction blocker octanol, and potassium induced gamma oscillations in the ca1 region
are reduced by the presumably more specific gap junction blocker carbonoxelone. gap junction coupling increases the power of 
gamma oscillations, though it is not necessary for their generation. 
in summary, mglur and kainate receptor dependent forms of gamma oscillation rely exclusively on fast inhibition mediated by gabaa
receptors. by contrast, machr-dependent types of oscillation require both fast inhibition and excitation. although the diversity
of in-vivo types of gamma oscillation may be unsatisfactory from a reductionist perspective, all forms are likely to be relevant
in-vivo, possibly reflecting region and state dependence of mechanisms underlying hippocampal gamma oscillations. 

role of basket cells in gamma oscillations: the predominant reliance of gamma oscillations on gabaa receptor mediated inhibition
led to the view that a mutually connected network of inhibitory interneurons is a major generator of gamma oscillations. in a 
simple analogy the interneuron network acts as a clock, providing a timing signal to the principle cell ensemble. but do all
interneurons participate in gamma generation, or only a sub-set? GABA containing interneurons are diverse and differ in their
functional properties, axonal arborization, and expression of molecular markers in both the hippocampus and neocortex. 
interneurons can be broadly classified as fast-spiking and non-fast-spiking, and soma-inhibiting vs dendrite inhibiting cells. 
moreover, interneurons can be subdivided into largely non-overlapping sets according to the expression of calcium binding proteins
such as parvalbumin, and neuropeptides such as somatostatin. on the basis of these criteria, 16 different subtypes have been 
identified in the hippocampal CA1 region. 
several lines of evidence indicate that fast spiking basket cells that express parvalbumin are essential for the generation of
gamma oscillations both in-vivo and in-vitro. first, parvalbumin expressing basket cells are abundant, in the hippocampus 
representing up to 20% of all GABA containing interneurons. second, fast-spiking, parvalbumin expressing basket cells both form 
an extensive, mutually connected interneuron network and have highly divergent output to principal neurons. this means that
inhibitory synapses between basket cells could synchronize action potential activity within the basket cell network, whereas
inhibitory synapses between basket cells and principal cells could distribute this synchronized activity to the principal cell
population. third, gamma activity is associated with alternating current sources and sinks in the perisomatic region, consistent
with the involvement of basket cells which innervate this region. fourth, the fast signaling properties of basket cells, 
particularly the fast spiking action potential phenotype, and the high intrinsic resonance frequency, seem to be optimal for the
generation of gamma oscillations. finally, basket cells are highly active during gamma activity. action potentials are generated
at a rate of 1 per gamma cycle, and precisely phase-locked to the oscillations. this activity pattern is very different from that
of principle neurons, which fire at a lower rate and with less precision. 
in addition to fast spiking parvalbumin expressing basket cells, other types of interneuron might contribute to the generation of
gamma oscillations. for example, cholecystokinin expressing basket cells could be involved. agonists of cannabinoid receptors, 
known to suppress gaba release from synaptic terminals of these cells, reduce gamma activity in vitro. other types of interneuron
which inhibit the dendritic domain may also contribute. however, the quantitive contribution of these subtypes to the generation 
of gamma oscillations remains to be identified. 

build it, and you understand it? 
how can networks of inhibitory cells generate synchronized gamma oscillations? one way to address this is to develope network 
models. the simplest possible model is a system of two synaptically connected neurons. if single neurons are described by 
integrate and fire models, their synchronization properties can be determined analytically. in such a two cell model, if the 
synaptic effects are instantaneous, excitatory coupling synchronizes the neurons very efficiently. however, if synaptic 
events arise more slowly (a biologically more plausible scenario), mutual inhibition is the better synchronizing mechanism. 
does this conclusion also hold in more complex systems with a larger number of neurons represented by conductance based models?
the oscillatory behavior of larger networks of interneurons has been investigated numerically, these models make the generalization
that inhibition between two neurons is weak, slow, and hyperpolarizing, and that the network is homogenous. furthermore, network
structure was not implemented. these studies conclude that inhibitory interneuron networks can generate coherent oscillations in 
the gamma frequency range if the neurons are exposed to tonic excitatory drive. coherent oscillations are also generated if a 
random train of phasic excitatory events instead of tonic drive is used to activate the network. 
as with many models, however, the devil is in the details. early models such as the wang-buzsaki model showed that synchronization 
is sensitive to changes in kinetics of synaptic conductance, connectivity, and synaptic reversal potential. synchronization was
also shown to be extremely sensitive to heterogeneity in the tonic excitatory drive, which translates into variability in the 
intrinsic action potential frequency, because of the monotonic relationship between firing frequency and driving current, therefore
heterogeneity in the drive will desynchronize the network. in the w-b model, synchronized oscillations are abolished if the 
coefficient of variation of the tonic excitatory drive exceeds 5%, and this requirement for minimal heterogeneity is inconsistent
with experimental data. robustness against heterogeneity can be improve substantially by incorporating fast and strong rather 
than slow and weak inhibitory synapses, however under these conditions a larger excitatory drive is needed to counterbalance
the increased inhibition. 
fast inhibition between basket cells: the ideal experimental strategy to address whether the properties of synapses between 
basket cells are consistent with the assumptions of network models is paired recording in acute brain slices. this approach has 
two main advantages 1) it allows the experimenter to record unitary inhibitory postsynapic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic
currents, which are generated by the activity of a single presynaptic neuron. second, if combined with biocytin labelling, 
paired recording allows the researcher to identify the presynaptic interneuron on the basis of its morphological properties and 
expression of molecular markers. paired recording experiments in vitro have shown that basket cells are highly interconnected in 
both hippocampus and neocortex. for example, the probability of finding a chemical synaptic coupling between two closely spaced
fast spiking parvalbumin expressing basket cells in the dentate gyrus is 50%. an independent measure of connectivity shows that
each basket cell is connected to atleast 60 others in the immediate vicinity. furthermore, paired recording analysis showed that
synapses between basket cells have specialized functional properties. 

























