trading_product

landing page from google paid search: pitch to people mainly on the value of autotrader testing, indicators, etc.
the importance of spread, 5m, 15m, etc

the landing page, document, and software should form a cohesive unit

pitch - cast doubt on indicators, cast doubt on trading strategies, expert advisors, etc, make people afraid
you have the answer - with science, and computing power, looking at 5 years of most recent data over 60 different instruments 
	market conditions change, but there are also trends and patterns that emerge. 

included: 

pdf with info (free) - with a download now button 
list of the top strategies, and the currencies they work best on (forward tested)
list of the top indicators, timeframes, that ACTUALLY WORK 
unity game (49.99$) (down from 99.99$)

in the pdf: let people in on some big secrets
	more bullet points, less bla bla, more data (easily absorbed) 
intro: a bit about myself: phd student, auto-traders, forex history
	a bit of DHV without giving away too much personal info. find a way to sneak in that you trade for a living. 
	"i'm going to let you in on some big trading secrets about how the market works because everything you know about indicators is likely wrong"
	
	condense it down and attune it more to the LF8	

#1) lower timeframes and spread - simple does not work! why not? the spread
	show two examples - a lower and a higher timeframe screenshot, but then show the scales 
#2) structure of the forex market - extremely random, simple indicators like stop/take profit ratio
	interpreting every move and taking it personally 
#3) autotraders that actually work (buy low, sell high) 
	how do we buy low and sell high? 
		RSI, CCI, Williams, Stochastic, and Bollinger Bands

#4) indicators: what is their purpose, and what do they actually do?
	we assume that they tell us what will happen in the future - but do they actually?
	average over 1000s and 1000s of trades. 

do this in matlab, save the data in paint, stick it into a pdf

write the pitch, then start diving into matlab. 



