spatial frequency - lower in V2 (foster)
temporal frequency - the same in both regions (foster)
temporal frequency - low pass
directional sensitivity - high temporal and low spatial tuned neurons are more likely to be directionally sensitive (foster)

v1 and v2 - similar spatial frequency bandwidth, but different spatial frequency range (Foster)
v1 and v2 - temporal frequency - similar range, but different bandpass tuning

higher circular variance => more spikes/second (Ringach)

contrast sensitivity - reduced contrast selectivity for different orientations
contrast sensitivity matches gamma peak? more sensitivity at vertical orientations, similar to orientation?
actually, we show oblique preference which reflects global gamma

different sensitivities vs different spectral responses - does a subject visual acuity match their gamma? 

what are some behavioural effects you could measure? 

contrast sensitivity peaks at 3-5cpd ... is that also where you get the most gamma? could correlate contrast sensitivity with gamma
what about orientation sensitivity? ie, distinguishing oblique from cardinal

a before and after orientation discrimination gamma experiment? similar to what muthu did...

link alpha/beta and gamma activity to behavioral changes and visual processing
	what do we know so far? gamma oblique preference, gamma cpd/cps preference, alpha/beta cpd/cps preference, BOLD
BOLD retinotopy to isolate V1 and V2, compare alpha/beta and gamma tuning to V1/V2 tuning
isolate v1 and v2, compare BOLD tuning in different areas. see if spatio-temporally the two signals match up
BOLD block design 8s on, 12 off. 

1) find stimuli that preferentially should activate different bands
	(spatio-temporal frequency, orientation, #components, color of plaid (affects gamma not alpha/beta), 

figure and background segregation - when the background is in the rf, a pronounced low frequency oscillation
alpha indexes the suppression of irrelevant information, more alpha means weaker mua response
putting the orientation orthogona square in a certain hemisphere should suppress alpha in that area. a better way to do 
EEG retinotopic mapping? 
also, examine the shape of the alpha oscillation in different hemispheres and see if you can relate that to cortical structure. 
curve tracing task - monkeys trace target
understand the difference between low and high frequency responses. 
linearity of responses? retinotopic a+b+c+d = e. quadrants, halves, etc. 
additive and multiplicative response of alpha/beta and gamma frequencies. 
orientation selectivity = 1-circular variance

need to get a static presentation (2-4 orientations, horizontal, vertical, 45, 135) to make sure you're doing it right
less inhibition underlies the oblique effect? 
find more V1 neurons tuned to cardinal because pyramidal cells are larger

MT+ better tuned for cardinal, while V1 better tuned for oblique motion (two orthogonal gratings) (Schluppeck)
center reading letter task to maintain fixation
flickering sine vs drifting sine - effects on gamma response? 
optimal spatial resolution is 2mm^3 
BOLD orientation decoding - vascular effects? 

the point of the project - use orientation tuning and FMRI to investigate differen EEG frequency bands
answer the following questions: 
1) do orientation tuning curves of alpha/beta and gamma differ, and which rhythm prefers which orientation?
2) if alpha/beta and gamma orientation curves differ, how is this related to BOLD tuning in each voxel?
	(voxel-wise correlation of tuning curves between alpha/beta and gamma). 
3) what are the implications of these effects for the interpretation of EEG rhythms?
	alpha/beta prefers cardinal => feedback? why would feedback be related to cardinal? excitatory cells are the ones
	that synapse on other areas? 

why would higher gamma for oblique be associated to worse contrast discrimination? 
why would lower gamma, for that matter? maybe gamma is the background rhythm of cortical computation, similar to alpha/beta? 
more gamma means more inhibitory action - more inhibition for oblique effects? 


wave-form of the alpha rhythm - what does this tell us about the size/location of the area? similar to wave form of geniculate cells
vs pyramidal cells	
distribution of orientation bandwidths shows most between 20-60deg. could this underlie the oblique gamma effect?
complex cells more broadly tuned than simple cells, due to no orientatino preference
high spatial frequencies exhibit more oblique effect, low spatial frequencies are equal. 
median bandwidth does not explain more cardinal orientation selective cells
optimal negative response at 45deg from optimal positive response - effects of inhibition? 
so basically, more inhibition at 45 degrees due to oblique effect => more gamma, more low spatial freq. bold? 

fast oscillations display sharper orientation tuning

get orientation detection threshold, make sure you have the oblique effect, then combine fmri and gamma to explain why
sequential grating presentation - clockwise or counter clockwise? 4 orientations, 

more inhibition of other orientations when oblique orientations are activated => more gamma rhythm
if you can somehow match gamma to inhibition, alpha/beta to excitation ,that would be cool
also, excitatory/inhibitory can be measured using mri techniques (BOLD, CBF, GABA), everyone is interested in how gaba correlates
with gamma, what about how alpha/beta correlates with glutamate or something else?

comparing motor gamma with visual gamma across subjects?

stronger orientation tuning with more gaba (Yang)
cheyne, ferrari, movement related gamma (2013)












 