two_photon_fluorescence microscopy study of cerebrovascular dynamics in ultrasound induced bbb opening, cho/hynynen
stuff to research: 2-photon microscopy. ultrasound. original microbubble paper, raymond et al 2007 (hemorrage)
van wamel 2004 fast framing camera, next experiment: longer duration for sustained, 

blood brain barrier disruption can be achieved with ultrasound and circulating microbubble contrast agent. using
dorsal ultrasound and definity, responses of the cortical cerebral vasculature to BBB opening were observed with
varying acoustic peak negative pressure (0.071 to 025MPa) under two-photon microscope. wistar rats with a 
craniotomy were sonicated with a single piezoelectric transducer following the intravenous injection of texas red
for visualization of vasculature and leakage from BBB opening. based on time dependent intensity change in the
extravascular area, the leakage was classified into 3 types : fast, sustained, and slow. fast leakage was 
characterized by a rapid increase to peak intensity during sonication, and a decrease afterwards, occuring at all
pressures and vessel sizes analyzed during the study. sustained leakage was characterized by a similar rapid
increase to peak intensity during sonication, but remaining elevated for the duration of the imaging, occuring at
low to intermediate pressures. slow leakage began 5-15 minutes after sonication, dominating at low pressures, and w
was more prevalent amoung small vessels than fast and sustained leakage. the study shows the possibility of 
controlling leakage type and vessel size in us-induced bbb opening through varying acoustic pressure. 

introduction: cerebral capillaries have specific properties that contribute to the formation of the blood brain
barrier. brain ecs have continuous tight junctions that differ from systemic ecs. brain ecs also have a high number
of mitochondria, lack of fenestrations, and reduced pinocytosis. membrane proteins, astrocytes and pericytes act
together with the brain ecs to form a bbb that limits diffusion across the capillary wall, selectively allowing 
substances of certain size and polarity  (<400-500Da, highly soluble in lipid) to cross between the lumen of the
blood vessel and the tissue. treatment of nervous system pathology has been limited by this barrier. a number of 
studies have found however that US sonication in combination with microbubble contrast agents can modify the
permeability of the bbb, and electron microscopy of the bbb during us/mb treatment has shown increased molecular
passage across the capillary bed. the bbb can be transiently and selectively disrupted at the us foci without 
any acute or lasting neurological damage. MRI studies have been used for visualization of the above effects, but
due to low time resolution, it is not an ideal technique and questions remain. real time monitoring of the bbb at
the level of individual vessels needs further analysis. two photon microscopy allows in-vivo visualization of the
cerebral vasculature and neurons at the sub-cellular level. two-photon microscopy is capbable of 500-600 um in depth,
unlike other modalities. photobleaching and phototoxicity can be minimized with two-photon microscopy, even with
repeated imaging as two-photon microscopy excitation occurs only at the point of focus. a previous study on 
multiphoton imaging of BBB disruption assessed cerebrovascular dynamics and the kinetics of dye leakage after US 
sonication from the ventral side of the brain. three leakage processes were described in this study, hemorrhage,
focal disruption, and transcytosis. frequent vascoconstriction accompanying bbb disruption was also noted. 
constriction duration and differences between arterial and venous leakage remain to be examined. dorsal rather than
ventral sonication was used to minimize tissue attenuation and variations in US exposure level, they specifically
wanted to study the effects of various acoustic pressures on BBB disruptions and vessels of varying size. the aim
was to investigate vessel caliber dependence of the leakage and characterize the kinetics of the process. 

materials and methods: 
animal preparation: 20 male wistar rats were used, placed in an induction box and allowed to breathe oxygen
enriched air containing 5% isoflurane, once fully relaxed isoflurane was reduced to 2%. after tracheotomy, the 
animal was restrained in a stereotaxic holder using ear bars and a bite bar. intramuscular injection of 
glycopyrrolate was also administed every hour to reduce secretion and help with breathing. the animals were connected
to a ventilator and constantly monitered with a pulse oximeter. the body temperature was controlled using an 
electric heating pad at 37.5deg celsius. the tail vain was cannulated with a catheter made with a 23 g needle 
attached to polyethelene tubing and secured with cyanoacrylate glue. a cranial window 5x5mm was prepared on the right
side of the skull about 3mm lateral from the midline by locating the primary somatosensory cortex, about 3mm
posterolateral to bregma. in cases where there was bleeding from removal of the dura, a second window was prepared
contralaterally. the cranial window was closed using 1% agarose, and a coverslip, secured using dental acrylate 
cement, and cyanoacrylate glue. the exposed brain within the cranial window was marked with tissue dye, before 
removal to help identify the sonication region. after euthanasia, brains were postfixed in 10% neutral buffered 
formalin followed by routine processing for paraffin wax embedding. 4 micron thick slices were cut every 150um through
the sonicated region, and sections were subsequently stained with hematoxylin and eosin to identify extravasated
red blood cells and other tissue damage. 
ultrasound application: a single element, ring-shaped, piezoelectric transducer was manufactured in house and driven
by a function generator and a 53-dB RF Power Amplifier. the applied forward and reflected RF power was monitered by
computer during sonication by an in-house constructed detector circuit. the computer system controlled the entire
sonication process. a 15mm cover glass was attached to the transducer with cyano-acrylate glue for direct attachment
to the rat skull. the transducer frequency varied from 1.15 to 1.2MHz, average input electrical power was between
0.26 to 1.45W in order to produce varying acoustic pressures. a vibrometer was used to measure acoustic peak 
pressure amplitudes at various input electrical and gave results in the range of 0.071 to 0.25MPa in an ex-vivo 
experiment. 20 rats were sonicated for 120 seconds each, each using a pulse duration of 10ms and a repetition 
frequency of 1Hz. Definity was diluted with saline in a 1:10 volume ratio, and injected through the tail vein at a
final concentration of 0.02mL/kg. the saline solution of MB was injected either 10s before or 10s after the start
of US sonication, to observe any difference in MB injection time. each animal was sonicated once or twice, if no 
leakage was observed within an hour, sonication was applied up to four times. control animals were either sonicated
without MB injection or injected with MB without any sonication. 
two-photon imaging: after the craniotomy was complete, the stereotaxic frame was moved to the microscope stage. 
Dextran conjugated texas red was injected through the tail vein catheter for visualization of the vessels and dye 
leakage following the disruption of the BBB. ultransound exposure and two-photon imaging was performed
simultaneously, the blood vessels in the brain were illuminated with a mode-locked Ti, a stack of 10 images 
spanning 100 to 300 um was acquired every 15-30seconds. 
image processing and statistical analysis: images were processed with olympus fluoview and matlab. all images were
converted to 8-bit grayscale before the analysis, regions of interest were demarcated along the vascular wall outside
the lumen to explore leakage of the dye by analyzing the intensity change over time. peak time was recorded for each
leaky vessel, which was arbitrarily set as the time taken to reach 80% or maximum intensity. the reason for using
80% instead of maximum intensity was due to the nature of sustained leakage, which reaches plateau, making it hard
for consistent measurement of peak times as they are trying to show the difference between 3 types. by choosing 80%
instead of 100%, the 3 leakage types were differentiated not only visually but numerically, especially the difference
between sustained and slow. the intraluminal vessel diameter was estimated by taking the fwhm of the signal profile
taken perpendicular to the local tangent to the vessels of interest. statistical differences amoung the different 
leakage mechanisms was calculated with a one-way anova followed by a neuman keuls multiple comparison test. 

results: in the controls, no signal change was observed with either MB injections or US exposure alone. the treated
animals had distinct responses to the MB/US treatment by displaying dye leakage compared with no leakage in controls.
treated animals receiving MB injection 10s before US did not differ from those receiving 10s after. 22 vessels
were located in animals receiving MB injection before US, and 30 vessels from animals receiving MB injection after
US stimulation. amoung the 22 vessels from the first group, 16 displayed fast leakage, 3 sustained, and 3 slow. for
the second group, of the 30 leaky vessels 18 were fast, 4 sustained, and 8 slow. of the 52 vessels from which 
leakage was observed, 35 were under 25um in diameter. by observing dye injection pretreatment, they were able to 
differentiate the types of vessels pretreatment for 13 vessels from 5 animals, and they observed leakage from
arteries 9/13 more often than veins (4/13). based on the peak time for start of dye leakage, three types of leakage
responses were identified. the peak time for leakage significantly increased for slow leakage, the first category
indentified as fast leakage was characterized by the detection of leakage within about a minute after the application
of MB and US. the leakage appeared to be from point sources along the vessel wall. the intensity decreased sharply
with time after reaching the peak, dropping below 80% of the maximum intensity in 18 seconds. sustained leakage
was that which displayed similar response to the fast leakage, except the peak intensity was sustained for the
duration of the experiment (up to 1 hr following cessation of sonication). slow leakage was characterized by a 
longer time delay post MB/US treatment, until leakage was observed. slow leakage was observed along the entire 
length of the vessels instead of circulating from point sources. 
there was a correlation between leakage category and the observed vascular diameter, fast leakage was observed from
a wide range of vascular sizes including largest and smallest, sustained leakage included vessels of varying size
similar to fast leakage, but within a smaller range of diameters. sustained leakage comprised the highest median
vessel diameter, but the upper limit was smaller than for fast leakage. slow leakage was observed mostly for vessels
under 25um, with the lowest median diameter of the leakage types. within the same animal there were multiple
leakages in a field of view, most of which included capillary leakages on top of a few arterial and/or venous 
leakages. capillaries responded immediately to mb/us treatment, constituting 37% of fast leakage. 
changes in acoustic pressure resulted in different leakage types. the higher the acoustic pressure, the more likely
that leakage started without delay upon initiation of the mb/us treatment. fast leakage occured for all types of 
acoustic pressure, but slow leakage was more prevalent at low levels of acoustic pressure. there was no correlation
between acoustic pressure amplitude and the diameter of the leaky vessels, all the pressures affected a wide range
of vascular sizes. about 25% of the vessels constricted, and 10% dilated upon MB/US treatment, while the remaining
65% showed no change in diameter with leakage. vasoconstriction and dilation were evident only in the fast and 
sustained leakage cases, slow leakage was free of changes in vessel diameter. there was an inverse correlation 
with vessel size and constriction, with the percentage of constriction increaseing with decreasing vessel size. 
vasoconstriction occured almost simultaneously with leakage in a number of cases.  
brain slices of animals who displayed only one type of leakage were selected for histological analysis, two 
per each type. one of the samples sonicated at low pressure had small extravasation is the tissue, but not as 
extensive as the larger extravasations observed in the high powered samples. The petechiae were observed 400um 
from the cortical surface of the animal. the other sample was also sonicated at 0.085MPa and did not have any
sign of extravasation. there was no apparent damage from the animals sonicated at 0.13MPa. one of the samples 
sonicated at high pressure 0.17MPa that displayed fast leakage from all leaky vessels had signs of extravasation
of red blood cells near the site of sonication. 

discussion: 
vascular size and blood brain barrier disruption: over 67% of the leaky vessels were under 25um in diameter, a size
that includes capillaries and the smallest arterioles and venules. the high variability in the size of intraluminal
space from 10s of um to 100s of um across the vascular bed would have influenced mb/ec interactions inside the
vessels. a much greater number of vessels underwent fast leakage than sustained or slow leakage, because of the 
number of capillaries that were compromised immediately upon sonication. since there is only a single layer of ecs
that make up the capillary wall, capillaries would be much more prone to fast disruption than bigger vessels, which
have multiple cellular layers. the mean size of defninity MB is 1.2-3 um in diameter, and can expand up to 20um. 
however, since mbs are injected intravenously, the capillary bed in the lungs will filter out the large mbs. in 
cases where mbs were sonicated while circulating in the capillaries, the tight junctions of the capillaries would
have been disrupted by the expanding and contracting mbs that stretch the vessel wall. it is possible that this would
disrupt the integrity of the tight junctions of the BBB, as has been observed with electron microscopy. additional
mechanisms for transendothelial transport of molecules identified by electron microscopy analyses of US induced 
BBB modulation include transcytosis, cytoplasmic opening of ec, and injured endothelial lining. 
vessel diameter change: an increase in intraluminal stress is known to cause vasoconstriction, the mb/us treatment
would have imposed such stresses along the walls, initiating cascade effects that ultimately cause vasoconstriction. 
it is also possible that vasoconstriction occured as a homeostatic mechanism in response to hemorrhagic damages observed
in fast leakage. the effects of vessel spasm and hemorrahage have been discussed in earlier reports with the aim of
avoiding the adverse effects of US stimulation on vessels, however only 25% of the sites tested here observed 
vasoconstriction combined with leakage or vasospasm. the lack of vasoconstriciton in rats may be due to the fact that
rats have reduced vasomotor excitability, making them less sensitive to the same mechanical stress applied in mice. 
vasodilation was also observed in 10% of the vessels, and the relationship between vasodilation and the BBB 
permeability has been previously examined. using stimulation of the parasympathetic sphenopalatine ganglion and found
temporary increases in the permeability of the BBB. another group has made a connection between disintegration of tight
junctions of the BBB and matrix metalloproteinases, inflammatory agents that are released by various stimuli in the 
brain which cause vasodilation of the vessels at the site of incipient inflammation. some of the vessel diameter changes
they observed could be explained by an in vitro study where microscopic images of MB-EC interaction were recorded with
a fast framing camera, where they found an inverse relationship between mb diameter and the distance between two 
fixed points on an ec, as the bubbles expanded the distance got shorter, as the bubbles shrank it increased. another
study posits that shear stress caused by oscillating MBs also likely modifies cellular permeability. vessel caliber 
changes can be indicative of the intraluminal stress that ultimately results in bbb disruption. all vessels that 
constricted leaked, but not all vessels that leaked constricted. constriction is therefore not essential to but 
contributes to leakiness. 
venous leakage: leakage from the veins was observed here but not in other studies. veins are larger in diameter and 
have thinner less rigid walls. veins also have a lower blood flow rate, and fewer tight junctions that make the
postcapillary venules the primary site of increased permeability during inflammation and prone to leukocyte traffiking.
microbubble injection time: there was no significant difference among the results obtained when injecting microbubbles
before sonication, or after sonication, although it was expected that injection before sonication would lead to 
increased leakage due to the longer circulation time. a study on definity kinetics under US stimulation showed that
precise timing is needed, the us must not be applied before the capillaries have had time to fill up with mb. it takes
about 5 seconds for dye injected to circulate through the cerebral vasculature, and the half life of definity in blood
is thought to be 1.9minutes. 
negative acoustic pressure amplitudes: variations in the interquartile, median, and mean negative peak pressure 
amplitudes among the three types of leakage reveal that peak negative acoustic pressures have influence over the 
leakage type. higher acoustic pressures would have caused bubble oscillation in greater amplitudes, transferring a 
strong mechanical stress on the tight junctions of cells. on the other hand, MBs sonicated at low pressures would not
have imposed enough local force to immediately rupture the barrier. although mbs vibrate in response to ultrasound
pulses, they do not always make enough contact with the ecs to cause changes in barrier integrity and permeability. 
a permeability study on the chorioallantoic membrane model with low frequency contrast material-enhanced us shows 
difference in the extent of endothelial gaps and the mean velocity of extravasation flow of dextran between high 
mechanical stress and low stress groups. 
leakage types: for slow leakage, the response time varied in the range of 5-15 minutes, until the intensity of the 
signal within the extravascular regions of interest started to change significantly. this time period is close to the
duration of transcytosis of low density lipoproteins taken across the ecs of the vessels, which was found to be about
15 minutes. they speculate that the mechanism responsible for slow leakage is transcytosis, which does not occur in a 
normal bbb, further investigation is necessary. the mb/us treatment increases both transjunctional and transcellular
transfer of molecules from the lumen of the cerebral vessels into the interstitual space. 
one possibility for the cause of fast leakage comes from a puncture of a vessel wall that heals quickly. the signal
intensity reduction is then caused by the diffusion of the dye into neighbouring tissues, reducing the concentrations
in the region of interest. the speed of vessel wall repair may be the major difference between sustained and fast 
leakage. a study on cell sonoporation with mb/us has shown temporary pore formation followed by quick resealing of cell
membrane after sonication. the real-time measurement of the membrane potential shows that the transmembrane recovers to
its original state following the us exposure, indication for resealing of the pores. with a pressure amplitude of 
<1Mpa, and duration of 1 second of US sonication, the recovery time of sonoporation is found to be 4-10s. although the
sonication parameters of that experimental setup are different, it raises the possibility that pores are rapidly 
opening and then resealing, which would match the rapid increase in peak intensity and subsequent fall off of leakage.
another explanation for reduction in intensity observed in fast leakage can be attributed to extravasations. a study
on the millimolar absportivities of human hemoglobin in the visible and near-infrared spectra range reveals that their
absorption peaks between 450 and 600nm. the intensity curve could have decreased rapidly upon reaching the peak value
due to red blood cells leaking out of the vessel. extravasations have also been observed in previous studies on us
induced bbb opening, although they observed extravasation in only one of the two samples that displayed fast leakage,
there is evidence that inertial cavitation causes vessel rupture and provides passages for erthrocytes observed in the
minor vascular damage. understanding these different leakage types can have important roles to the therapeutic studies
using mb/us. the kinetics of dye leakage can be further studied in pharmacokinetics. 

conclusions: different types of leakage can be obtained by controlling peak negative pressure amplitude of sonication.
low power seem to elicit transcytosis initially followed by formation of a transcellular gap that allows transport of
materials from the lumen of the blood vessel to the intercellular space. the intermediate and high powers result in
immediate response to the mb/us treatment, via multiple leakage patterns, resulting from a number of possible 
mechanisms such as local puncture on the vascular wall and widening of the tight junctions. vasoconstriction did not
occur as often as expected based on previous studies, and some small vasodilation was observed. the size of the blood
vessel also influenced its response in terms of diameter change, with smaller blood vessels constricting more and
more easy to disrupt even with low acoustic pressures. the results show that us induced bbb opening may be selective
for vessel size by controlling sonication pressure. 
















