ultrasound mediated drug delivery to the brain: principles, progress, and prospects. 
the blood brain barrier bbb limits drug delivery to the CNS. when combined with microbubbles, ultrasound can transiently permeate
blood vessels in the brain. this approach, referred to as sonoporation or sonopermeabilization, holds promise for the delivery of
antibodies, growth factors, and nanomedicine formulations across the bbb. the basic principles of bbb permeation using us and mb,
summarize several pre-clinical studies showing the potential of bbb opening for treating of cancer and other neurodegenerative
diseases. 

introduction: the bbb in its natural state allows only for the uptake of small, lipophilic drugs, while preventing the vast 
majority of other drugs from entering the brain.

ultrasound as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool: us is the most ubiquitous imaging modality in the clinic after x-ray radiography,
which can be explained by its non-invasive and bedside capable nature, real time diagnosis of various pathological conditions,
lack of radiation, and low cost. us imaging is used as standard practice in clinics for routine examinations of fetuses during
prenatal development, breast, abdomen and neck microcirculatory flow, and other soft tissue pathologies. 
the implementation of MB as contrast agents has extended diagnostic US imaging. during ultrasonography, iv administered MB are
known to cause an acoustic backscatter due to differences in the acoustic impedance of the gas in the MB core and the surrounding
tissues. this characteristic of MB very strongly increases their US reflection, and explains their usefulness as blood pool 
contrast agents. the high echogenicity of circulating MB has improved the US detection and characterization of malignant liver 
lesions, cardiac pathologies, cerebral vessel stenosis, and is useful to monitor tumor perfusion in oncological studies. 
apart from diagnostic applications, US has emerged as a powerful tool for therapeutic purposes. MRI guided high intensity 
focused ultrasound has been employed for the thermal ablation of deep-seated tumors and uterine fibroids, in such a setup US
waves and energies are focused deep into the pathological brain tissues causing a local temperature increase of up to 60deg which
causes a thermal ablation. hybrid imaging together with MRI provides anatomical reference for guidance of focused US therapy, 
and at the same time enables real-time monitoring of local temperature increases via MR thermometry. 
in the last couple of years, the combination of US with MB has also attracted attention for delivering drugs, genes, and nano-
medecine formulations across the blood-brain barrier. MB can either be used for direct drug delivery (loading therapeutic agents
into their interior or shell), or for indirect delivery (upon employing stable and inertial cavitation effects to open up
biological barriers). MB are 1-5um gas filled vesicles stabilized by phospholipids, proteins or polymers, and their shells can
be functionalized with various different moieties including drugs, imaging agents, and targeting ligands. due to the compressible
nature of MB, they can either oscillate (stable cavitation) or implode (inertial cavitation) depending on the magnitude of 
mechanical index, which is a measure of cavitation intensity governed by pressure amplitude and US frequency. stable and inertial 
MB cavitation can generate a plethora of biophysical effects that open up temporarily cellular membranes and blood vessels. the 
term sonoporation will be used to describe both cell membrane and blood vessel permeabilization. 

mechanisms involved in vessel permeabilization: multiple physical phenomena play a role in sonoporation and vessel permeabilization.
at low mechanical index, MB oscillate in a symmetric manner. the repeated expansion and compression of MB upon exposure to low
acoustic pressures is referred to as stable or non-inertial cavitation. the expansion of MB near the vessel wall during the gas
inflow phase can push the endothelial or cellular lining apart, while MB shrinkage during the compression phase causes
invaginations in the vascular lining, potentially resulting in the opening of tight junctions via push-pull mechanisms. in addition
the rapid expansion and contraction features of MB in an ultrasonic field are known to create fluid flow patterns known as micro
streams which which can induce high shear stresses up to several thousand pascals, and which can disrupt the integrity of the 
endothelial lining. a third mechanism which can help to improve drug delivery across the endothelial lining relies on absorption of
US energies, which result in pressure gradients and in acoustic radiation forces displacing MB in the direction of US waves. 
this phenomenon can force MB to push strongly against and massage the endothelium, thereby inducing vascular permeability. if
mechanical indices exceed a particular threshold, MB violently collapse during the compression phase, which can lead to the
fragmentation of the MB generating high temperatures and pressures within close proximity. this effect is referred to as inertial
cavitation, and is generally accompanied by shock waves and micro-jet formation. both of these biophysical effects are known to
perforate cell membranes and induce vascular permeability. other effects, such as the formation of free radicals, have been 
proposed to contribute to endothelial permeabilization, for example liquid perodixation mechanisms. 
factors affecting vessel permeabilization: the magnitude of blood vessel and BBB permeabilization depends on both the US parameters
and the MB properties. US parameters which play an important role include transducer type, pressure amplitude, sonication time,
US frequency, burst length, and pulse repetition frequency. selecting an US with optimal geometric design is paramount for 
efficient propagation of US waves through the skull, which are otherwise distorted by the skull's irregular shape and high acoustic
impedance. a phased array transducer has been proposed to minimize skull heating and attenuation of US waves, improving propagation
into the brain and enhancing sonoporation efficiency. increasing the pressure amplitude and sonication time increases the 
magnitude of BBB permeation, but medical complications such as hemorrhage, erythrocyte extravasation, and edema formation are 
observed at higher pressure amplitudes and upon prolonged sonication. it was demonstrated that the threshold for BBB permeation 
linearly increased with US frequency, and that less vascular damage was observed at lower frequencies. studies have also reported
an increase in BBB opening with increased burst length or repetition frequency. the magnitude of BBB opening, however, has been 
shown to be saturable. 
the nature of the mb also play an important role in the extent/duration of BBB opening. using mb with larger average sizes has
been shown to increase BBB permeability, at the same acoustic pressure of 0.45MPa, the BBB permeability was shown to be increased
10-fold by increasing average MB size from 0.2 to 0.6um. the composition of the MB shell, which can be based on lipids, proteins,
and polymers likely also plays a crucial role in optimizing BBB opening. a shell based on denatured albumin, rather than lipid,
was shown to induce greater BBB disruption. 































