understanding ultrasound induced sonoporation: definitions and underlying mechanisms. 
abstract: there is a lack of consensus on the biophysical and biological mechanisms to bbb opening via FUS and MB. sonoporation
is the formation of temporary pores in the cell membrane. this review categorizes the mechanisms contributing to sonoporation 
according to 3 ultrasound settings 1) low intensity ultrasound leading to stable cavitation of microbubbles 2) high intensity
ultrasound leading to inertial cavitation with microbubble collapse and 3) ultrasound application in the absence of microbubbles. 
using low intensity ultrasound, the endocytotic uptake of several drugs could be stimulated while short but intense ultrasound
pulses can be applied to induce pore formation and the direct cytoplasmic uptake of drugs. ultrasound intensities may be adapted to
create pore sizes correlating with drug sizes. small molecules are able to diffuse passively through small pores created by low
intensity ultrasound treatment. however, delivery of larger drugs such as nanoparticles and gene complexes will require higher 
ultrasound intensities in order to allow direct cytoplasmic entry. 
due to their gas filled and hence compressible core, microbubbles can respond to ultrasound pressure waves. this process of 
alternating growing and shrinking is called cavitation, at low ultrasound intensities stable cavitation occurs where the 
microbubbles repeatedly grow and shrink, at higher intensities inertial cavitation may occur which results in microbubble implosion
and stronger biophysical effects. 
the interaction of ultrasound with tissue can induce 1) mechanical effects 2) chemical effects and 3) thermal effects, depending
on the ultrasound setting, which can in turn lead to several bio effects. the scope of this review will be limited to the 
mechanical and chemical aspects of ultrasound induced drug delivery. 

mechanisms contributing to ultrasound induced sonoporation: 
cell membrane permeabilization by stably cavitating microbubbles. 
biophysical aspects of stable cavitation: at very low acoustic pressures, microbubbles oscillate in a symmetrical, linear way, 
meaning that their expansion and compression are inversely proportional to the local ultrasound pressure. at higher US intensities
they behave nonlinearly, with a lengthening of the expansion phase as the bubbles are more resistant to compression than expansion.
this phenomenon is known as stable or non-inertial cavitation. during stable cavitation of the microbubble, there is a gas influx
during expansion and a gas efflux during compression. in the case of symmetrical oscillations, the net gas influx over one 
compression/expansion cycle is zero. however, when the expansion phase is extended, there is net gas influx into the microbubble.
for this reason, the microbubble grows until it reaches its resonant size, whereupon it demonstrates stable, low amplitude 
oscillation. these stable oscillations create a liquid flow around the microbubble, referred to as microstreams, which creates 
shear stress when the microbubbles are in the close vicinity of cells, which can range from 100 to 1000Pa, which is relatively high
compared to the stress related to blood flow (0.1-4Pa). 
biological effects provoked by stable cavitation: although it was initially believed that inertial cavitation of microbubbles was
required to enhance uptake of low molecular weight drugs there is now mounting evidence that these stable oscillations may also
stimulate the intracellular delivery of macromolecular drugs and nanoparticles. at these lower intensities, two mechanisms have 
been postulated to contribute to the uptake of cell impermeable molecules namely (1) the formation of small pores and
2) endocytosis. endocytosis was more extensive for larger molecules, while pore formation was the main mechanism for smaller 
dextrans. 
it was also shown that stable microbubble oscillations can lead to chemical stress by inducing the formation of free radicals. free
radicals play an important role for increased permeability
cell membrane permeabilization by inertial cavitation
biophysical aspects of inertial cavitation: at higher ultrasound intensities, the oscillation amplitude of the microbubbles can
grow rapidly during the low pressure phase, until the microbubbles collapse due to the inertia of the inrushing fluid. this results
in the fragmentation of the microbubbles into many smaller microbubbles. during this collapse, shock waves can be generated in the
fluid and jet formation can occur. when a collapsing microbubble is located close to a surface like a cell membrane, an 
asymmetrical collapse takes place and results in formation of a liquid jet towards a nearby surface. 
biological effects provoked by inertial cavitation: 


































