unity_forex_app

long term goals - sell premium version for 29.99 on app store and landing page (allow free download/install for trial version) 
	you can release multiple different versions for people who want to try different types of instrument (or just include all keywords/data in one version)


short term (today) get back to baseline for indicator creation - get familiar with the code again 
if you remember correctly, you left off adding macd (which is one of many indicators you want to eventually add) 
	i think you were on the get min/max for the price chart, so you were working on scaling the plot based on whatever was active

can worry about scaling later - right now, you want to focus on getting all indicators added correctly to the chart, and making sure the process of the user
clicking on the add indicator button and entering the parameters, to the indicator showing up on the screen, is smooth and bug-free. same for the indicator
removal process. 

for now, disable the box chart indicators and the line plot indicators, and focus on adding them one by one through the GUI

remove indicator button - refresh it every time a new indicator is added. 

PATH TO VICTORY
need a predefined sequence of steps you can take to earn 150+$ per day from this software

1) finish the app
	a) indicators - by next friday, all the currently defined indicators should be added, and think of more to add also but keep it limited
	b) boxes - the box indicator configuration should be set - stack them in the bottom row one by one (allow user to adjust size?)
	c) account structure and saving - need to finish this and have a smooth account loading/creation/saving interface
	d) data - add more and different types of data (bitcoin, etfs, etc)
	e) plot labels - add the text labels to the plot axes
	f) trade markers - create trade markers for buy/sell actions
	g) account statistics - track the user's activity, how successful they were with each indicator, and epoch the indicators around wins/losses
		i) ie, average the indicators before the user's best and worse trades (big marketing point, sell it as quantitative trade analysis) 
	h) ability to select specific time points in the data? 

2) release and monetize the app

	monetization: 
		advertising in android/iphone
		in-app purchases
		sales through landing page

today: be able to add/remove all indicators that are currently coded and if you finish this, start coding more indicators (rsi, aroon, etc) 
today: just put in 3hrs of work in the morning, 10am-1pm. 
	finish the MACD - insert the bars, and remove the box when the user removes the indicator
	add a "calculating" prompt when calculating indicators. 
today: try to finish all indicators up to the higher timeframe - create a random colormap for new indicators, and a rainbow colormap for the mma 
today: start 9:44, end 1:44 - 4hrs. finish: stochastic, volume, atr, adx, higher timeframe, spread, after this?
	next big thing is to sync higher timeframe with lower timeframe (based on time stamps) and have 2 plots open. 
	the basic functionality is to be able to put indicators on higher time-frames (do the bare minimum for this) 
	appears to be a problem with the volume data, isn't saving properly (but spread is there in 6th index). 
	higher timeframe - last indicator to add, and also plays into adding the second screen, and indicators on higher TF.
	next - make sure all the box plots are working for add/remove, and add an adjustable bar so you can change the size of each plot screen. 
		be able to add multiple boxes, and remove multiple boxes, and adjust box width/height

today: multiple box plots, and adjust the size of the box plot 
step 1: be able to adjust a single box plot with the mouse/tap. 
start by automatically adding an indicator - maybe put a small rectangle above/below each box chart? 
start with a simple sphere, be able to move a sphere around on the screen (every new indicator you create gets a sphere) 
goal for today: be able to adjust the size of multiple indicator boxes 
first thing - be able to move the initial box	
basic drag logic - every new indicator resizes all the boxes by dividing the screen up evenly. 
if you drag too low/high, the rest of the indicators get pushed up/down, but there is a minimum visibility (ie, 1/20th of the screen), but it doesn't
draw them it just turns black. 
each indicator has a rectangle (add the mainplotrect to the amalgamated rectangles) and a sphere. 
logic for controlling box size:
add NEW: reshape all, make height/n
resize current: keep all boxes in an array. as you add them, they get placed one on top of another. each sphere can control the bottom of its own plot or
the top of the above plot. 
have an "on resize" function that is called every time you move a size sphere. it takes into account the screen height, and calculates new dimensions based
on which sphere the user has changed position. 
next - do the baseline condition (Add new indicator, resize all boxes) (done)
every new box plot indicator adds a new sphere, that is selectable (add shader to build also) 
add a sphere to the top of every new box indicator. 
almost done - just need to get "remove indicator" working properly. sphere is not removing. 
need to start testing it for desktop also. 

next big step will be to synchronize the low with the high time-frame, and add indicators to the high time frame

add trade indicators - ie, MACD cross, RSI threshold, etc (make the markers match the indicator color) 

this coming week (sun 18-sat 24, 7 days):
	finish ALL the indicators + display problems including but not limited to the following
		1) long term indicator - this will depend on your current timeframe, so for example if you are trading 1 minute, it will be 5,30,1hr, 4hr
			the easiest way to do this will be to just build up bars similar to the java version, based on current time frame, no need for time synchro. 
			you also want to be able to add indicators to the higher time-frame - find a simple way to do this (maybe append them to the list?)
				or - just use a simple candle chart
			
		2) MACD/ADX - fix color for slow/fast mvg and ADX direction (DONE) 
		3) zoom - make it less abrupt, add zoom button (for desktop version) (DONE)
		4) add/remove indicator order is broken (when you have both main chart and box chart indicators). (DONE)
		5) 5-6 more indicators, so you can say "20+ indicators" 
			(fibs, support/resistance, recent high/low, parabolic SAR, accumulation/distribution, momentum, ultimate oscillator)
		6) fix volume in saved data, or double check make sure it is not working...
		7) finish the colors for the multiple moving average (DONE)
		8) finish trade markers (buy/sell dots + line), show with spread, save in user info (DONE - except for trailing label) 
		9) update new unity credit card (find your CC!) - in car?
		10) bollinger band and multiple mvg lines - scale the main plot by these instead of the actual line. 
		11) different colors for multiple bollinger band/RSI/CCI etc. use a different color map for each type? (DONE)
		12) show stoploss/take profit on the chart itself - need to actually implement this first 
		13) have a separate box for when a trade is open showing trade progress? ie a upl monitor (with stop and TP and %chance of stop/tp and prev low/high) 
		14) Aroon - add the subtraction box to the main plot? 
		15) add labels to box chart indicators (DONE) 
	all of the above => the basic functionality will be complete (indicators + buy/sell + display)

	something is wack with the values, none of the indicators seem to be giving the correct range. 

before march (24-28, 4 days):
	finish the data parsing and loading
	get more currencies/instruments
	finish account loading/saving state

march 1-30
	auto-trader/trade analyzer/account summary stuff
	sound
	unity in-app purchases
	custom splash screen
	dividing premium/regular modes (isPremium) 
	etc
	design logo/text for google play

target release: march 31st 2018 - first version released to android, complete with in-app purchases. 
		next target - desktop/laptop/tablet launch - drive people to landing page and test conversions

today first thing: you must work 4hrs, non-negotiable.
1) fix the scaling for all box plot indicators, and draw the label/parameters and threshold lines. 
	add a new variable to indicator - threshold lines
2) by the end of the day - a functional program that you can practice trading on using indicators. (DONE)

tomorrow - 5 hours of forex game work straight. 9am-2pm. 
	implement: 
	stop loss/take profit
	long term indicator - work on this first
		add as box plot indicator. just stuff the previous frames 
		how did you do this last time? first create an indicator, then incrementally add to it as time goes on.
		first check if the arrays==null, or just update? 
		it exists as an array of floats the same size as the original data, but you start a new bar every n time periods. 
		or, will this make it less accurate and you need to take real time into account? this is probably better, because data 
		actually has time-specific effects and people may want to test this. it involves adding in more saved data (time) but in the end, will be
		better because the result will be far more accurate... 
		so basically you need to go back to the data and re-calculate these bars...will also solve the volume and account loading issue at the same time. 
		make that your goal for today 
		if you're going to start fresh with the data, you should start from the beginning - re-download all the data from dukascopy, and any other source
		you can find (bitcoin, etc). find what people are trading these days and get that data (structure your app around this) 
	bollinger band/mma scaling 
	problem with CCI in data flats? also the MACD doesn't scale well when you have really long averages. 
	
if you finish the above 3 things, you will be able to move to account loading/saving and data parsing. 

once that is done, auto-trader, trade analyzer, and release (maybe bump release date up to march 15?)
	





