unity version of forex game - applicable to windows phone, and many other platforms

need to start with the user in mind, so you don't have to go back and fuck around with all that code. 

next - scrolling with touch, then add main menu and user, and basic trading functionality. 
gl.lines - could do around 50k lines with decent framerate. 
here, assume you maximize the 

add indicators - each indicator has a drawSelf method, select the drop-down menu (which fills up the plot screen when clicked),
and then creates an initialization box (options grayed out if you don't buy), 

today: creating/saving the user, and trade logic (buy/sell etc). 
first get the buttons working with play/pause. 

start new game - first transition to the plot screen to make sure scene switch works. 
load game - how to save stuff in unity? 

start new game screen - select instrument, select starting balance, proceed to plot screen

once you get to create new game, you've officially passed the previous version

goal - by the time you're done at imeka, release two apps, on two platforms - the fibervisualizer, and the forex game, on 

difficulty levels - easy (no transaction costs), beginner (comission only), realistic (spread + comission), rigged (spread + comission + slippage). 

persistence is pretty much done. yay! 

tomorrow - try to improve the dropdown menu, so its easier for the user to navigate
add loading messages when the user selects stuff, so they don't get confused 
integrate the loaded user with the plot - display settings, etc. 
add select difficulty dropdown in new user tab 

http://cattrapstudios.com/blog/unity-ui-tutorial-canvas-and-scalability/

change all the dropdowns to a single dropdown prefab, increase the menu size 
dropdowns are donzo. next? 
next thing is to integrate the user with the trading screen, ie, save the users account balance etc. 
then, add indicators (just copy/paste from android studio), then trade analyzer, account summary, auto-trader, and purchases. 
add splash screen also. 
you want to have this released on two platforms by the time you leave imeka, so, in less than two weeks. then its back to slowly
working on your phd while you making the top-down rpg game. 

game controls - add text views at the top of plot to show account balance and other things (Currency, etc). 

tonight - add upl text view, and then implement trading controls (buy/sell, etc). don't let user scroll past current point. 
also, update the scrolling area, and make it so dropdown movements don't affect scrolling 
draw upl, limit chart size a bit, 

add a chart speed control slider 

tomorrow - finish account loading and user management, make sure loading/deleting works properly, finish UI overhead, add some more currencies 
(add a 30m, 1hr, 4hr, etc, and one of each type eurusd, eurjpy, etc, display timeframe and leverage
// finish UI overhead - currency, time frame, leverage, (add leverage dropdown) 
// change main menu to text titles (remove crappy labels) 
// add remove indicator button (meh) 
// fix text size on buttons - scale it to screen width 
// increase label size on dropdown menu 
// reformat leverage text boxes, have only 4 boxes at top, put time frame on chart, change colors for all drop downs, and the UI will be pretty much done
// add the reset to the select/delete indicator, remove populate list from remove indicator, change play button text size
1st: select leverage
2nd - loading data based on user selection preferences - folder, name, etc 
change the dropdown menu labels, once you select an item
fix the bug where you try to delete shit and it doesn't work - fixed
fix the account display on load/delete

next - fix the scrolling dropdown issue //fixed (childcount) 
next - add indicators, add account summary (by tomorrow night) 
next - add auto-trade, trade analyzer
next - pretty up UI //mostly done (black/dark gray color scheme), can set this to user preferences 
next - integrate banner ad, in-app purchases
next - release


draw lines on the top bar
fix the fucked up delete menu thing in load user screen - da fuck is going on here

add indicator screen - a new scene? or some kind of popup menu
fix the scrolling back issue - screen turns black instead of just stopping when it gets to the limit 
make the select leverage bar half as wide, replace with speed control slider
//add tap to advance one bar, add barchart, candles, and the ability to select them
add all the current indicators and link them to the account settings somehow
add the tap to advance one bar 
need to use the panel for the indicator settings
// draw trade markers, stop the UPL from calculating on past data when you scroll. 
goal for today: add all the fancy chart stuff, and add 1 indicator. 
add a stop loss and take profit dropdown 
tomorrow - finish the panel and add indicators, fix small things like saving account state and some clicking bugs 
goal is to release this puppy by the end of Imeka stage (before Dec.) 

// tonight : finish all the indicator panels - dropdowns, buttons, parameters, etc
tomorrow - add the actual indicators. 
moving average panel - moving average type, moving average period. 
change the tap to only the far right part (change th color slightly), add text, tap/tap and hold to advance data 
increase the top size so it looks better in landscape 
remove the start trading texture, and make it text. 

premium features - account summary/trade analyzer, more currencies, more time-frames, customize indicator parameters, 

find a way to display flashing message
add a cancel button to add indicator, make the accept button universal (find a way to keep it static) 
	keep the parameters as private static fields, and have a switch statement in the accept button listener, to create the
	respective indicator using the parameters that the user set. 

toggle the parameters shown on screen (tp, stop, timeframe, etc) 

//indicator drawself function? how to abstractly draw all the indicators with a simple call 
	=> use a bounding box, and just have a draw TimeSeries function, 
once you finish the bollinger band panel, add the indicators themselves and make sure it works for all 3
next things to do - finish all box indicators (and all indicators in general), and fix the minmax scaling according to indicators. 
add a little control button on the far right, to control the size of each indicator box 
