winawer_research_proposal 

research strategy
a) significance: 
motivation/goal: bridging the gap from neuron to brain function, brain is functionally organized into small (<1mm) populations, human neuroimaging has identified
multiple spatial scales, from small cm wide networks to whole brain connections engaging multiple areas. to understand how the brain works, we need to measure
dynamic processes across spatial scales, from populations to networks. capacity for non-invasive, fast, and high resolution brain imaging has exploded in recent 
years (FMRI), yet limits in resolution, modeling, and linking fmri to neurophys have left us far from understanding how activity in neuronal populations relates
to signals measured. propose empirical models to a) build encoding models from stimulus and task to neuronal population response, b) translate properties of neuronal
populations across spatial scales and modalities. obtain measurements across multiple spatial scales to inform and validate models that translate between these scales,
using custom MRI hardware for high spatiotemporal resolution, cortical optical recordings, and high density intra-cranial human ECOG to obtain a unique set of
measurements at level of neuronal populations in humans.

Current state of the art:
FMRI: despite recent advances in hardware and acquisition speed, FMRI is inherently limited by the fact that it measures neural activity indirectly through 
hemodynamic changes, furthemore, the vascular contribution to FMRI muddles the signal. 
integrating FMRI and neurophysiology: combining ECOG and FMRI is a promising avenue, as ECOG is sensitive to synchronous as well as asynchronous neural activity.
recent findings combining high resolution ECOG and FMRI in marmosets reports a tight match between hemodynamics and asynchronous neuronal firing, but another 
study reports the two can be uncoupled. 
computational modeling of sensory systems: PRF models aggregate neuronal responses at a cortical site as a funciton of stimulus properties and paradigm design,
and can be subsequently convolved with an HRF to predict BOLD signals. they have interpretable units such as position and size in the visual RF, and these parameters
can be used to compare measurements between sites (V1 vs MT), task (attention or not), individuals (healthy vs autism) and instruments (ecog vs fmri). prfs can also
be applied in the auditory and tactile domains. 
gaps in the current state: fundamental disagreements about the relationship between BOLD and neuronal activity remain, BOLD fmri associated with multiple ephys
features, resulting in conflicting models, stimulus paradigms, and species. the solution proposed is to account for all observed relationships in a comprehensive 
model, using high quality multimodal data collection from the same individuals, and solving one model of neuronal population responses, which in turn predicts 
multiple instrument measurements. 

innovation: a) development of a comprehensive model to link neuronal population physiology to non-invasive measurements, b) obtain state of the art multimodal 
recordings from the same individuals in the service of bridging the modalities and feeding the models, c) validating the model with data from multiple modalities
and brain systems (visual, somatosensory, and motor), and d) make algorithms, data and code available 
Deliverables: a unique, publically available data set of functional human brain activity, spanning multiple measurement modalities and scales, linked by a common
set of carefully controlled experiments and tasks. new computational models of neuronal population activity in visual and somatosensory cortex, implemented using
public, state of the art software infastructure. parallel, public datasets in human and rodent, including high resolution FMRI, and neural/optical measurements.

approach: a set of ecog, 3t, and 7t will be acquired in individual patient volunteers at the UMCU. a set of MEG, EEG, ECOG, and 3T will be acquired at NYU. the same
experiments (except ECOG) will be conducted at both sites in healthy controls. optical recordings and high field fmri in rodents and a subset of patient volunteers
relate hemodynamic models based on vascular anatomy to humans and translate between modalities. 
Brain Systems: systematically vary activity across a wide range of task and stimulus conditions, to elicit a wide range of neurophysiological response. 

participants: 24 ecog patients will complete visual or somatosensory experiments, for a total of 12 complete ecog sets in each sensory domain. 48 healthy subjects
will participate in the identical experiments (excluding ECOG). 

experiment 1: task vs rest: a confound in assessing signal changes in a quantitative manner is the baseline state to which signal changes are compared. the baseline
state can vary depending on arousal or attention, the experiment will consist of 9 cycles of task/rest, (12s/12s), the crosshair will dim, prompting the subject
to press a button, the tactile experiment will consist of a vibration that will change in frequency during task, and amplitude throughout task. 

experiment 2: hemodynamic response function: slow, event-related design, stimuli presented for 0.25s, exponentially distributed ISI, mean 9s, range 3-24s, a large
contrast pattern for visual, and 50hz vibration on fingertips for tactile. 

experiment 3: retinotopy/somatotopy - retinotopy and somatotopic mapping experiments (prf mapping)

experiment 4: spatiotemporal: noise patterns, faces, etc, all presented for 0.5s. somatosensory will span amplitude, sparseness, frequency. 

data acquisition and preprocessing: 0.8-1mm 7Tesla, spin and gradient echo. high field T1 weighted 0.5-0.8mm isotropic T1. for patients, MRI, EEG, and MEG will take
place pre-operatively, postoperative CT will identify electrode locations, and aligned. 

AIM1: characterize, model, and quantify the electrophysiological response of neuronal populations to external stimuli and tasks. 
background and motivation: aim1 develops new models for the neurophysiological signals in visual and somatosensory cortex in response to stimulus and task. three
central components to the aim 1) use computational framework to study how stimuli are encoded, building on PRF methods already established, predicting responses
to a wide range of features (orientation, patter, contrast, etc). the models will take the space and time varying properties of the visual stimuli, extending visual 
prf models to space and time, and developing/validating space and time models for tactile stimuli. second, separate stimulus related responses from task-related
responses, it is likely that neuronal population response and hemodynamic responses differ for sensory stimulation compared with task effects, hence both must be
measured separately (Task-related effects and stimulus-related effects - attention?) third, rather than modeling the output of a particular instrument, instead model
the signals in a neuronal population, and from this population activity predict the electrophysiological responses measured by the instrument, this requires a 
significant extension of pRF models to incorporate multiple circuit responses. 
experimental protocol and analysis: the forward computation from stimulus or task to instrument is separated into three explicit stages: 
model-a: the largest component of aim1, the input is stimulus or task and the output is the time-varying set of synaptic inputs to a local neuronal population, with
dimensions time points x number of neurons, output is modeled as arising from several separate circuits which are summed, one circuit is time-locked to the stimulus,
one is asynchronous, one is narrowband at high frequency, and one or more is narrowband at low frequency. this approach is consistent with claims that local neuronal
signals reflect multiple circuits, and these circuits are sensitive to different stimulus properties. due to lack of access to complete synaptic inputs to individual
neurons, model-a cannot be fitted and validated directly, instead, predictions are made for ECOG and EEG/MEG in conjunction with models b/c, and for FMRI, in 
conjunction with models d/e. 

an example of developing one model component - an asynchronous circuit for visual stimuli - is as follows: start with a well tested pRF model of the FMRI signal 
called the SOC model, which takes an arbitrary gray scale image, and predicts the BOLD response, next, hypothesize that the same type of model will predict the ECOG
broadband signal, and complete the circuit model by using the SOC output as the rate of spike arrivals in each neuron, and convert the rate to discrete spikes using
Poisson sampling, this circuit computes time varying spike arrival to each modeled neuron in a population, in contrast with the SOC model, which computes a single
number per stimulus. other model components, such as one generating gamma rhythms have very different properties, the stimulus dependency of gamma rhythms is very 
different from BOLD or broadband ECOG, pilot work developed a NBF model, which accurately predicts the level of gamma oscillations measured by the electrode, large
gamma oscillations reflect elevated synchrony in the local neuronal population, but not an elevated rate of spike arrivals. to adapt the NBF model to a population,
its output is used to scale the band-limited neuronal coherence, in this circuit model, the gamma power in individual neurons does not depend on the stimulus, but the
coherence across the population does. in these examples, model development begins by predicting one feature of the electrophysiological measurement, (ECOG BB or NB
 gamma), the model was then augmented to output a matrix of synaptic inputs to a local population, rather than a single number, additional circuit models will be 
developed to account for low frequency oscillations and stimulus-locked signals. 
to extend the visual model to account for temporal properties of the stimulus, start with FMRI models. a recently developed PRF model that predicts the BOLD response
to brief stimuli varying in duration and ISI, accounting for temporal summation and adaptation, the model was developed for FMRI but has been validated with ECOG, 
further work will require augmenting the model to compute neuronal population activity, and include multiple circuits (stimulus locked, narrowband high frequency
and narrowband low frequency). sensorimotor models will adopt similar approach, using fMRI and gaussian prfs across and within digits. 
the task-related study serves two purposes, first, providing important constraints for understanding how neuronal signals relate to the BOLD signal, and second, 
task-related effects in sensory cortex are of interest in and of themselves, sensory cortex encodes incoming stimuli and is sensitive to a wide range of top-down
processes, a comprehensive model must account for both types. 3 alternative hypotheses will be tested, specifically that task related effects 1) do not include a 
robust, observable local modulation in the local field potential, 2) are reflected in slow cortical potentials below the low frequency cutoff, 3) are reflected in
broadband elevation of power. 

model-b: this component translates the neuronal population inputs into neuronal dendritic potentials, using a variant of a leaky integrator model to explain the shape
of the ECOG power spectrum. once learned, this model can be fixed, as the parameters are expected to be similar across cortical locations and subjects. 

model-c: model-c translates the neuronal population activity to an electrode time series, using linear summation and assuming neurons oriented perpendicular 
underneath the electrode. this linearity has important implications, for example asnychronous signals will cancel partially, growing only with the sqrt of the number
of signals, while synchronous signals grow linearly. summation causes an interaction between spatial scale and coherence, providing leverage to fit multiple circuit
models. 

preliminary results: preliminary data exists, prf models that predict responses to arbitrary images have been extended from fmri to ecog, and a new model developed 
to predict stimulus selectivity of narrow band gamma. temporal prf has been developed for fmri and validated with ecog. task related effects have been measured with
3t fmri and agree with optical imaging in primates. broadband and nb gamma has been obtained using MEG. sensorimotor prf models have been developed for ecog. 

possible outcomes and interpretation: extending spatial prf models to time will increase understanding of how sensory inputs are integrated over time, and building
sensorimotor prfs will bring computational power of visual prf to a new domain. by modeling the activity of neurons in sensory cortex, fmri and neurophysiology will
be integrated in terms of circuit properties, rather than simply asking which features of each type are correlated. 

potential pitfalls: mini ecog might not be implanted in some patients for clinical reasons, if not, standard ecog will be used. ecog may not cover early visual cortex
MEG/EEG SNR may be too low to be useful, if so, more trials on a reduced stimulus set will be collected. solutions may not be constrained, two or more possible 
neuronal population responses may explain a given response, if so, more stimuli will be introduced to disambiguate. 

aim2: characterize, model, and quantify the hemodynamic responses in single voxels to external stimulation: separate the spatiotemporal dynamics of micro from macro
vessels, from BOLD measurements. microvessels directly interface with active neuronal populations, while macrovasculature is serially engaged in either actively or
passively (arterial and venous respectively). optical recordings in animals have shown spatiotemporal regulation of hemodynamics on the order of mm and ms, extraction
of spatiotemporal dynamics from FMRI signals will help us understand dynamic processes in neuronal populations. micro scale models based on rodent vascular network
anatomy predict spatiotemporal evolution of hemodynamic parameters given physical properties of the vasculature, allowing for a quantitative interpretation of 
hemodynamic measurements. propose to integrate micro and macro scale models to extract quantifiable spatiotemporal dynamics of microvessels from fmri measurements
across field strengths and resolutions. a central questiona addressed is whether parameters measured at the micro scale can yield better predictions for macro scale
parameters than those obtained using simplified assumptions from macro scale models, a key element is that empirical data is acquired at each scale to inform models
and evaluate model predictions at different scales. 
methods and preliminary data: optical recordings acquired at the micro scale, and micro/macro vascular dynamics will be measured at high field using custom coils
and spin/gradient echo contrast. studies 2a and 2b will evaluate micro scale model in rodents and translate between modalities, study 2c will evaluate the model in 
humans using optical imaging. differences in vascular architecture between species in blood transit times will also be investigated. lower resolution 3T FMRI will also
be used to translate the model to macro-scale measurements. 
study 2a: rodent micro-scale model: 9.4T fmri, tungsten microelectrode, electrical stimulation of the forepaw, levels of neuronal activity will be evaluated in prior
experiments using optical imaging and microelectrode recordings. 
study 2b: vascular challenges, by changing co2 concentration, measure hemodynamic responses using 9.4t and optical signals
study 2c: human volunteers: optical recordings performed intra-operatively, under light propofol anesthesia, prior of after ecog implantation, sequential illumination
of cortical tissue at multiple wavelenghts, 
study 2d: human, healthy volunteers: gas challenge at 3t and 7t, interleaved 2m blocks, used during visual and somatosensory stimulation, to modulate arterial inflow
while minimally affecting neural activity. 
study 2e: 7t and 3t fmri will be performed in 3 separate scans per subject using the full set of visual and somatosensory stimuli. 
analysis and predictions: by modulating physical properties of the vasculature in micro-scale models, spatiotemporal evolution of hemodynamic parameters will be 
predicted, to distinguish between micro and macro-vessels. these parameters will be formulated in hemodynamic response functions for micro and macro vessels in terms
of oxygenation and blood volume. incorporating these functions into a macro model accounting for micro and macro vascular compartments gives a prediction of micro
and macro vascular fmri signals. micro-scale parameters will be used in model e to predict the fmri signal, and test if they yield better predictions than those 
obtained with simplified assumptions from macro scale models. also use variants of the model, leaving parameters out to see if they are necessary to predict the
measurements. model outputs will be compared with empirical measurements at the different spatial scales. 
fmri data: estimate HRF components for micro and macro vascular compartments based on SE and GE contrasts. assuming the same volume, the difference between SE and GE
signals gives an estimate of macro vascular contributions and vessel size within a volume. at high field, mainly extra-vascualr signals contribute to the measurement,
at 3T, the relative contribution of extra and intra vascular signals will be evaluated by comparing EPI and PRESTO HRFs, and comparing 7T data interpolated to 3T voxel
size. the amplitude (pos/neg) and spatial distribution of signal changes across voxels will be examined, as well as other time-series parameters (slope, etc). 
model e validation: 








questions:
what type of visual stimuli did you use (which patterns, specifically?) - what data do you have? 
extending these results to continuous paradigms?
task and stimulus related effects studied separately - attention, feedforward/feedback?
were you able to acquire simultaneous optical and ecog recordings in patients, or in mice?
broadband and narrowband orientation preferences, microvascular and macrovascular orientation preferences	
do you actually think modeling the different BOLD compartments will yield more stimulus specific responses? 





specific aims:

AIM2: Characterize, model, and quantify the hemodynamic response in voxels to external stimulation: determine the relative contribution of the two known contributors
to the FMRI signal, the capillary bed and the intracortical/pial vessels. models will be developed that describe a) the responses in the two vascular components, and
b) how these responses contribute to the various hemodynamic measurements. current vascular models are based on rodent physiology. similar measurements in rodents
and humans will be obtained, to relate the models between species. stimuli from aim 1 will be used for hemodynamic measurements in humans, at 3 and 7t as well as 
intra-operative optical imaging, additionally hemodynamic responses using fmri in rodents at 9.4t and cortical optical recordings for very high resolution. 
